
Shift to Park*, then press ENGINE START/STOP
*For manual transmission, apply the parking brake
Note If you press ENGINE START/STOP and the shift lever is not in Park, the
vehicle goes into Accessory mode
Grab either one of the door handles when
the vehicle is off Wait 
The Holy Bible

Part 52 out of 74

FullBooks.com homepage
Index of The Holy Bible
Previous part (51)
Next part (53)



Osee Chapter 13


The judgments of God upon Israel for their sins. Christ shall one day
redeem them.

13:1. When Ephraim spoke, a horror seized Israel: and he sinned in
Baal, and died.

13:2. And now they have sinned more and more: and they have made to
themselves a molten thing of their silver as the likeness of idols: the
whole is the work of craftsmen: to these that say: Sacrifice men, ye
that adore calves.

13:3. Therefore they shall be as a morning cloud, and as the early dew
that passeth away, as the dust that is driven with a whirlwind out of
the floor, and as the smoke out of the chimney.

13:4. But I am the Lord thy God from the land of Egypt: and thou shalt
know no God but me, and there is no saviour beside me.

13:5. I knew thee in the desert, in the land of the wilderness.

13:6. According to their pastures they were filled, and were made full:
and they lifted up their heart, and have forgotten me.

13:7. And I will be to them as a lioness, as a leopard in the way of
the Assyrians.

13:8. I will meet them as a bear that is robbed of her whelps, and I
will rend the inner parts of their liver: and I will devour them there
as a lion, the beast of the field shall tear them.

13:9. Destruction is thy own, O Israel: thy help is only in me.

13:10. Where is thy king? now especially let him save thee in all thy
cities: and thy judges, of whom thou saidst: Give me kings and princes.

13:11. I will give thee a king in my wrath, and will take him away in
my indignation.

13:12. The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up, his sin is hidden.

13:13. The sorrows of a woman in labour shall come upon him, he is an
unwise son: for now he shall not stand in the breach of the children.

13:14. I will deliver them out of the hand of death. I will redeem them
from death: O death, I will be thy death; O hell, I will be thy bite:
comfort is hidden from my eyes.

13:15. Because he shall make a separation between brothers: the Lord
will bring a burning wind that shall rise from the desert, and it shall
dry up his springs, and shall make his fountain desolate, and he shall
carry off the treasure of every desirable vessel.



Osee Chapter 14


Samaria shall be destroyed. An exhortation to repentance: God's favour
through Christ to the penitent.

14:1. Let Samaria perish, because she hath stirred up her God to
bitterness: let them perish by the sword, let their little ones be
dashed, and let the women with child be ripped up.

Perish, because she hath stirred up her God to bitterness. . .It is not
a curse or imprecation, but a prophecy of what should come to pass.

14:2. Return, O Israel, to the Lord thy God: for thou hast fallen down
by thy iniquity.

14:3. Take with you words, and return to the Lord, and say to him: Take
away all iniquity, and receive the good: and we will render the calves
of our lips.

14:4. Assyria shall not save us, we will not ride upon horses, neither
will we say any more: The works of our hands are our gods: for thou
wilt have mercy on the fatherless that is in thee.

14:5. I will heal their breaches, I will love them freely: for my wrath
is turned away from them.

14:6. I will be as the dew, Israel shall spring as the lily, and his
root shall shoot forth as that of Libanus.

14:7. His branches shall spread, and his glory shall be as the olive
tree: and his smell as that of Libanus.

14:8. They shall be converted that sit under his shadow: they shall
live upon wheat, and they shall blossom as a vine: his memorial shall
be as the wine of Libanus.

14:9. Ephraim shall say, What have I to do any more with idols? I will
hear him, and I will make him flourish like a green fir tree: from me
is thy fruit found.

14:10. Who is wise, and he shall understand these things? prudent, and
he shall know these things? for the ways of the Lord are right, and the
just shall walk in them: but the transgressors shall fall in them.




THE PROPHECY OF JOEL



JOEL, whose name, according to ST. JEROME, signifies THE LORD GOD: or,
as others say, THE COMING DOWN OF GOD: prophesied about the same time
in the kingdom of Judea, as OSEE did in the kingdom of Israel. He
foretells under figure the great evils that were coming upon the people
for their sins: earnestly exhorts them to repentance: and comforts them
with the promise of a TEACHER OF JUSTICE, viz., CHRIST JESUS OUR LORD,
and of the coming down of his holy SPIRIT.



Joel Chapter 1


The prophet describes the judgments that shall fall upon the people,
and invites them to fasting and prayer.

1:1. The word of the Lord, that came to Joel, the son of Phatuel.

1:2. Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the
land: did this ever happen in your days, or in the days of your
fathers?

1:3. Tell ye of this to your children, and let your children tell their
children, and their children to another generation.

1:4. That which the palmerworm hath left, the locust hath eaten: and
that which the locust hath left, the bruchus hath eaten: and that which
the bruchus hath left, the mildew hath destroyed.

That which the palmerworm hath left, etc. . .Some understand this
literally of the desolation of the land by these insects: others
understand it of the different invasions of the Chaldeans, or other
enemies.

1:5. Awake, ye that are drunk, and weep, and mourn all ye that take
delight; in drinking sweet wine: for it is cut off from your mouth.

1:6. For a nation come up upon my land, strong, and without number: his
teeth are like the teeth of a lion: and his cheek teeth as of a lion's
whelp.

1:7. He hath laid my vineyard waste, and hath pilled off the bark of my
fig tree: he hath stripped it bare, and cast it away; the branches
thereof are made white.

1:8. Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the husband of her
youth.

1:9. Sacrifice and libation is cut off from the house of the Lord: the
priests, the Lord's ministers, have mourned:

1:10. The country is destroyed, the ground hath mourned: for the corn
is wasted, the wine is confounded, the oil hath languished.

1:11. The husbandmen are ashamed, the vinedressers have howled for the
wheat, and for the barley, because the harvest of the field is
perished.

1:12. The vineyard is confounded, and the fig tree hath languished: the
pomegranate tree, and the palm tree, and the apple tree, and all the
trees of the field are withered: because joy is withdrawn from the
children of men.

1:13. Gird yourselves, and lament, O ye priests, howl, ye ministers of
the altars: go in, lie in sackcloth, ye ministers of my God: because
sacrifice and libation is cut off from the house of your God.

1:14. Sanctify ye a fast, call an assembly, gather together the
ancients, all the inhabitants of the land into the house of your God:
and cry ye to the Lord:

1:15. Ah, ah, ah, for the day: because the day of the Lord is at hand,
and it shall come like destruction from the mighty.

1:16. Is not your food cut off before your eyes, joy and gladness from
the house of our God?

1:17. The beasts have rotted in their dung, the barns are destroyed,
the storehouses are broken down: because the corn is confounded.

1:18. Why did the beasts groan, why did the herds of cattle low?
because there is no pasture for them: yea, and the flocks of sheep are
perished.

1:19. To thee, O Lord, will I cry: because fire hath devoured the
beautiful places of the wilderness: and the flame hath burnt all the
trees of the country.

1:20. Yea, and the beasts of the field have looked up to thee, as a
garden bed that thirsteth after rain, for the springs of waters are
dried up, and fire hath devoured the beautiful places of the
wilderness.



Joel Chapter 2


2:1. Blow ye the trumpet in Sion, sound an alarm in my holy mountain,
let all the inhabitants of the land tremble: because the day of the
Lord cometh, because it is nigh at hand.

The day of the Lord. . .That is, the time when he will execute justice
upon sinners.

2:2. A day of darkness, and of gloominess, a day of clouds and
whirlwinds: a numerous and strong people as the morning spread upon the
mountains: the like to it hath not been from the beginning, nor shall
be after it, even to the years of generation and generation.

A numerous and strong people. . .The Assyrians, or Chaldeans. Others
understand all this of an army of locusts laying waste the land.

2:3. Before the face thereof a devouring fire, and behind it a burning
flame: the land is like a garden of pleasure before it, and behind it a
desolate wilderness, neither is there any one that can escape it.

2:4. The appearance of them is as the appearance of horses, and they
shall run like horsemen.

2:5. They shall leap like the noise of chariots upon the tops of
mountains, like the noise of a flame of fire devouring the stubble, as
a strong people prepared to battle.

2:6. At their presence the people shall be in grievous pains: all faces
shall be made like a kettle.

2:7. They shall run like valiant men: like men of war they shall scale
the wall: the men shall march every one on his way, and they shall not
turn aside from their ranks.

2:8. No one shall press upon his brother: they shall walk every one in
his path: yea, and they shall fall through the windows, and shall take
no harm.

2:9. They shall enter into the city: they shall run upon the wall, they
shall climb up the houses, they shall come in at the windows, as a
thief.

2:10. At their presence the earth hath trembled, the heavens are moved:
the sun and moon are darkened, and the stars have withdrawn their
shining.

2:11. And the Lord hath uttered his voice before the face of his army:
for his armies are exceedingly great, for they are strong, and execute
his word: for the day of the Lord is great and very terrible: and who
can stand it?

2:12. Now, therefore, saith the Lord. Be converted to me with all your
heart, in fasting, and in weeping, and mourning.

2:13. And rend your hearts, and not your garments and turn to the Lord
your God: for he is gracious and merciful, patient and rich in mercy,
and ready to repent of the evil.

2:14. Who knoweth but he will return, and forgive, and leave a blessing
behind him, sacrifice and libation to the Lord your God?

2:15. Blow the trumpet in Sion, sanctify a fast, call a solemn
assembly,

2:16. Gather together the people, sanctify the church, assemble the
ancients, gather together the little ones, and them that suck at the
breasts: let the bridegroom go forth from his bed, and the bride out of
her bridal chamber.

2:17. Between the porch and the altar the priests, the Lord's
ministers, shall weep, and shall say: Spare, O Lord, spare thy people:
and give not thy inheritance to reproach, that the heathens should rule
over them. Why should they say among the nations: Where is their God?

2:18. The Lord hath been zealous for his land, and hath spared his
people.

2:19. And the Lord answered, and said to his people: Behold I will send
you corn, and wine, and oil, and you shall be filled with them: and I
will no more make you a reproach among the nations.

2:20. And I will remove far off from you the northern enemy: and I will
drive him into a land unpassable, and desert, with his face towards the
east sea, and his hinder part towards the utmost sea: and his stench
shall ascend, and his rottenness shall go up, because he hath done
proudly.

The northern enemy. . .Some understand this of Holofernes and his army:
others, of the locusts.

2:21. Fear not, O land, be glad, and rejoice: for the Lord hath done
great things.

2:22. Fear not, ye beasts of the fields: for the beautiful places of
the wilderness are sprung, for the tree hath brought forth its fruit,
the fig tree, and the vine have yielded their strength.

2:23. And you, O children of Sion, rejoice, and be joyful in the Lord
your God: because he hath given you a teacher of justice, and he will
make the early and the latter rain to come down to you as in the
beginning.

2:24. And the floors shall be filled with wheat, and the presses shall
overflow with wine, and oil.

2:25. And I will restore to you the years which the locust, and the
bruchus, and the mildew, and the palmerworm hath eaten; my great host
which I sent upon you.

2:26. And you shall eat in plenty, and shall be filled and you shall
praise the name of the Lord your God; who hath done wonders with you,
and my people shall not be confounded for ever.

2:27. And you shall know that I am in the midst of Israel: and I am the
Lord your God, and there is none besides: and my people shall not be
confounded forever.

2:28. And it shall come to pass after this, that I will pour out my
spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy:
your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions.

2:29. Moreover, upon my servants and handmaids in those days I will
pour forth my spirit.

2:30. And I will shew wonders in heaven; and in earth, blood, and fire,
and vapour of smoke.

2:31. The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood:
before the great and dreadful day of the Lord doth come.

2:32. And it shall come to pass, that every one that shall call upon
the name of the Lord, shall be saved: for in Mount Sion, and in
Jerusalem shall be salvation, as the Lord hath said, and in the residue
whom the Lord shall call.



Joel Chapter 3


3:1. For behold in those days, and in that time when I shall bring back
the captivity of Juda, and Jerusalem:

3:2. I will gather together all nations and will bring them down into
the valley of Josaphat: and I will plead with them there for my people,
and for my inheritance, Israel, whom they have scattered among the
nations, and have parted my land.

3:3. And they have cast lots upon my people: and the boy they have put
in the stews, and the girl they have sold for wine, that they might
drink.

3:4. But what have you to do with me, O Tyre, and Sidon, and all the
coast of the Philistines? will you revenge yourselves on me? and if you
revenge yourselves on me, I will very soon return you a recompense upon
your own head.

3:5. For you have taken away my silver, and my gold: and my desirable,
and most beautiful things you have carried into your temples.

3:6. And the children of Juda, and the children of Jerusalem, you have
sold to the children of the Greeks, that you might remove them far off
from their own country.

3:7. Behold, I will raise them up out of the place wherein you have
sold them: and I will return your recompense upon your own heads.

3:8. And I will sell your sons, and your daughters, by the hands of the
children of Juda, and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, a nation far
off, for the Lord hath spoken it.

3:9. Proclaim ye this among the nations: Prepare war, raise up the
strong: let them come, let all the men of war come up.

3:10. Cut your ploughshares into swords, and your spades into spears.
Let the weak say: I am strong.

3:11. Break forth, and come, all ye nations from round about, and
gather yourselves together: there will the Lord cause all thy strong
ones to fall down.

3:12. Let them arise, and let the nations come up into the valley of
Josaphat: for there I will sit to judge all nations round about.

3:13. Put ye in the sickles, for the harvest is ripe: come and go down,
for the press is full, the fats run over: for their wickedness is
multiplied.

3:14. Nations, nations in the valley of destruction: for the day of the
Lord is near in the valley of destruction.

3:15. The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars have withdrawn
their shining.

3:16. And the Lord shall roar out of Sion, and utter his voice from
Jerusalem: and the heavens and the earth shall be moved, and the Lord
shall be the hope of his people, and the strength of the children of
Israel.

3:17. And you shall know that I am the Lord your God, dwelling in Sion,
my holy mountain: and Jerusalem shall be holy, and strangers shall pass
through it no more.

3:18. And it shall come to pass in that day, that the mountains shall
drop down sweetness, aud the hills shall flow with milk: and waters
shall flow through all the rivers of Juda: and a fountain shall come
forth of the house of the Lord, and shall water the torrent of thorns.

A fountain shall come forth of the house of the Lord, etc. . .Viz., the
fountain of grace in the church militant, and of glory in the church
triumphant: which shall water the torrent or valley of thorns, that is,
the souls that before, like barren ground brought forth nothing but
thorns; or that were afflicted with the thorns of crosses and
tribulations.

3:19. Egypt shall be a desolation, and Edom a wilderness destroyed:
because they have done unjustly against the children of Juda, and have
shed innocent blood in their land.

3:20. And Judea shall be inhabited for ever, and Jerusalem to
generation and generation.

Judea--and Jerusalem. . .That is, the spiritual Jerusalem, viz., the
church of Christ.

3:21. And I will cleanse their blood, which I had not cleansed: and the
Lord will dwell in Sion.




THE PROPHECY OF AMOS



AMOS prophesied in Israel about the same time as OSEE: and was called
from following the cattle to denounce GOD'S judgments to the people of
Israel, and the neighbouring nations, for their repeated crimes, in
which they continued without repentance.



Amos Chapter 1


The prophet threatens Damascus, Gaza, Tyre, Edom, and Ammon with the
judgments of God, for their obstinacy in sin.

1:1. The words of Amos, who was among the herdsmen of Thecua: which he
saw concerning Israel in the days of Ozias king of Juda, and in the
days of Jeroboam the son of Joas king of Israel two years before the
earthquake.

The earthquake. . .Many understand this of a great earthquake, which
they say was felt at the time that king Ozias attempted to offer
incense in the temple. But the best chronologists prove that the
earthquake here spoken of must have been before that time: because
Jeroboam the second, under whom Amos prophesied, was dead long before
that attempt of Ozias.

1:2. And he said: The Lord will roar from Sion, and utter his voice
from Jerusalem: and the beautiful places of the shepherds have mourned,
and the top of Carmel is withered.

1:3. Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four I
will not convert it: because they have thrashed Galaad with iron wains.

For three crimes--and for four. . .That is, for their many unrepented of
crimes.--Ibid. I will not convert it. . .That is, I will not spare them,
nor turn away the punishments I design to inflict upon them.

1:4. And I will send a fire into the house of Azael, and it shall
devour the houses of Benadad.

1:5. And I will break the bar of Damascus: and I will cut off the
inhabitants from the plain of the idol, and him that holdeth the
sceptre from the house of pleasure: and the people of Syria shall be
carried away to Cyrene, saith the Lord.

1:6. Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four I will
not convert it: because they have carried away a perfect captivity to
shut them up in Edom.

1:7. And I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza, and it shall devour
the houses thereof.

1:8. And I will cut off the inhabitant from Azotus, and him that
holdeth the sceptre from Ascalon: and I will turn my hand against
Accaron, and the rest of the Philistines shall perish, saith the Lord
God.

1:9. Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four I will
not convert it: because they have shut up an entire captivity in Edom,
and have not remembered the covenant of brethren.

1:10. And I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour
the houses thereof.

1:11. Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Edom, and for four I
will not convert him: because he hath pursued his brother with the
sword, and hath carried on his fury, and hath kept his wrath to the
end.

1:12. I will send a fire into Theman: and it shall devour the houses of
Bosra.

1:13. Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of the children of Ammon,
and for four I will not convert him: because he hath ripped up the
women with child of Galaad to enlarge his border.

1:14. And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabba: and it shall
devour the houses thereof with shouting in the day of battle, and with
a whirlwind in the day of trouble.

1:15. And Melchom shall go into captivity, both he, and his princes
together, saith the Lord.

Melchom. . .The god or idol of the Ammonites, otherwise called Moloch,
and Melech: which in Hebrew signifies a king, and Melchom their king.



Amos Chapter 2


The judgments with which God threatens Moab, Juda, and Israel for their
sins, and their ingratitude.

2:1. Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Moab, and for four I will
not convert him: because he hath burnt the bones of the king of Edom
even to ashes.

2:2. And I will send a fire into Moab, and it shall devour the houses
of Carioth: and Moab shall die with a noise, with the sound of the
trumpet:

2:3. And I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof, and will slay
all his princes with him, saith the Lord.

2:4. Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Juda, and for four I will
not convert him: because he hath cast away the law of the Lord, and
hath not kept his commandments: for their idols have caused them to
err, after which their fathers have walked.

2:5. And I will send a fire into Juda, and it shall devour the houses
of Jerusalem.

2:6. Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Israel, and for four I
will not convert him: because he hath sold the just man for silver, and
the poor man for a pair of shoes.

2:7. They bruise the heads of the poor upon the dust of the earth, and
turn aside the way of the humble: and the son and his father have gone
to the same young woman, to profane my holy name.

2:8. And they sat down upon garments laid to pledge by every altar: and
drank the wine of the condemned in the house of their God.

2:9. Yet I cast out the Amorrhite before their face: whose height was
like the height of cedars, and who was strong as an oak: and I
destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots beneath.

2:10. It is I that brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and I led
you forty years through the wilderness, that you might possess the land
of the Amorrhite.

2:11. And I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young men
for Nazarites. Is it not so, O ye children of Israel, saith the Lord?

2:12. And you will present wine to the Nazarites: and command the
prophets, saying: Prophesy not.

2:13. Behold, I will screak under you as a wain screaketh that is laden
with hay.

I will screak. . .Unable to bear any longer the enormous load of your
sins, etc. The spirit of God, as St. Jerome takes notice, accommodates
himself to the education of the prophet and inspires him with
comparisons taken from country affairs.

2:14. And flight shall perish from the swift, and the valiant shall not
possess his strength, neither shall the strong save his life.

2:15. And he that holdeth the bow shall not stand, and the swift of
foot shall not escape, neither shall the rider of the horse save his
life.

2:16. And the stout of heart among the valiant shall flee away naked in
that day, saith the Lord.



Amos Chapter 3


The evils that shall fall upon Israel for their sins.

3:1. Hear the word that the Lord hath spoken concerning you, O ye
children of Israel: concerning the whole family that I brought up out
of the land of Egypt, saying:

3:2. You only have I known of all the families of the earth: therefore
will I visit upon you all your iniquities.

Visit upon. . .That is, punish.

3:3. Shall two walk together except they be agreed?

3:4. Will a lion roar in the forest, if he have no prey? will the
lion's whelp cry out of his den, if he have taken nothing?

3:5. Will the bird fall into the snare upon the earth, if there be no
fowler? Shall the snare be taken up from the earth, before it hath
taken somewhat?

3:6. Shall the trumpet sound in a city, and the people not be afraid?
Shall there be evil in a city, which the Lord hath not done?

Evil in a city. . .He speaks of the evil of punishments of war, famine,
pestilence, desolation, etc., but not of the evil of sin, of which God
is not the author.

3:7. For the Lord God doth nothing without revealing his secret to his
servants the prophets.

3:8. The lion shall roar, who will not fear? The Lord God hath spoken,
who shall not prophesy?

3:9. Publish it in the houses of Azotus, and in the houses of the land
of Egypt, and say: Assemble yourselves upon the mountains of Samaria,
and behold the many follies in the midst thereof, and them that suffer
oppression in the inner rooms thereof.

3:10. And they have not known to do the right thing, saith the Lord,
storing up iniquity, and robberies in their houses.

3:11. Therefore thus saith the Lord God: The land shall be in
tribulation, and shall be compassed about: and thy strength shall be
taken away from thee, and thy houses shall be spoiled.

3:12. Thus saith the Lord: As if a shepherd should get out of the
lion's mouth two legs, or the tip of the ear: so shall the children of
Israel be taken out that dwell in Samaria, in a place of a bed, and in
the couch of Damascus.

3:13. Hear ye, and testify in the house of Jacob, saith the Lord the
God of hosts:

3:14. That in the day when I shall begin to visit the transgressions of
Israel, I will visit upon him, and upon the altars of Bethel: and the
horns of the altars shall be cut off, and shall fall to the ground.

3:15. And I will strike the winter house with the summer house: and the
houses of ivory shall perish, and many houses shall be destroyed, saith
the Lord.



Amos Chapter 4


The Israelites are reproved for their oppressing the poor, for their
idolatry, and their incorrigibleness.

4:1. Hear this word, ye fat kine that are in the mountains of Samaria:
you that oppress the needy, and crush the poor: that say to your
masters: Bring, and we will drink.

Fat kine. . .He means the great ones that lived in plenty and wealth.

4:2. The Lord God hath sworn by his holiness, that lo, the days shall
come upon you, when they shall lift you up on pikes, and what shall
remain of you in boiling pots.

4:3. And you shall go out at the breaches one over against the other,
and you shall be cast forth into Armon, saith the Lord.

Armon. . .A foreign country; some understand it of Armenia.

4:4. Come ye to Bethel, and do wickedly: to Galgal, and multiply
transgressions: and bring in the morning your victims, your tithes in
three days.

4:5. And offer a sacrifice of praise with leaven: and call free
offerings, and proclaim it: for so you would do, O children of Israel,
saith the Lord God.

4:6. Whereupon I also have given you dulness of teeth in all your
cities, and want of bread in all your places: yet you have not returned
to me, saith the Lord.

4:7. I also have withholden the rain from you, when there were yet
three months to the harvest: and I caused it to rain upon on city, and
caused it not to rain upon another city: one piece was rained upon: and
the piece whereupon I rained not, withered.

4:8. And two and three cities went to one city to drink water, and were
not filled: yet you returned not to me, saith the Lord.

4:9. I struck you with a burning wind, and with mildew, the palmerworm
hath eaten up your many gardens, and your vineyards: your olive groves,
and fig groves: yet you returned not to me, saith the Lord.

4:10. I sent death upon you in the way of Egypt, I slew your young men
with the sword, even to the captivity of your horses: and I made the
stench of your camp to come up into your nostrils: yet you returned not
to me, saith the Lord.

4:11. I destroyed some of you, as God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrha, and
you were as a firebrand plucked out of the burning: yet you returned
not to me, saith the Lord.

4:12. Therefore I will do these things to thee, O Israel: and after I
shall have done these things to thee, be prepared to meet thy God, O
Israel.

4:13. For behold he that formeth the mountains and createth the wind,
and declareth his word to man, he that maketh the morning mist, and
walketh upon the high places of the earth: the Lord the God of hosts is
his name.



Amos Chapter 5


A lamentation for Israel: an exhortation to return to God.

5:1. Hear ye this word, which I take up concerning you for a
lamentation. The house of Israel is fallen, and it shall rise no more.

5:2. The virgin of Israel is cast down upon her land, there is none to
raise her up.

5:3. For thus saith the Lord God: The city, out of which came forth a
thousand, there shall be left in it a hundred: and out of which there
came a hundred, there shall be left in it ten, in the house of Israel.

5:4. For thus saith the Lord to the house of Israel: Seek ye me, and
you shall live.

5:5. But seek not Bethel, and go not into Galgal, neither shall you
pass over to Bersabee: for Galgal shall go into captivity, and Bethel
shall be unprofitable.

Bethel,--Galgal,--Bersabee. . .The places where they worshipped their
idols.

5:6. Seek ye the Lord, and live: lest the house of Joseph be burnt with
fire, and it shall devour, and there shall be none to quench Bethel.

5:7. You that turn judgment into wormwood, and forsake justice in the
land,

5:8. Seek him that maketh Arcturus, and Orion, and that turneth
darkness into morning, and that changeth day into night: that calleth
the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth:
The Lord is his name.

Arcturus and Orion. . .Arcturus is a bright star in the north: Orion a
beautiful constellation in the south.

5:9. He that with a smile bringeth destruction upon the strong, and
waste upon the mighty.

With a smile. . .That is, with all ease, and without making any effort.

5:10. They have hated him that rebuketh in the gate: and have abhorred
him that speaketh perfectly.

5:11. Therefore because you robbed the poor, and took the choice prey
from him: you shall build houses with square stone, and shall not dwell
in them: you shall plant most delightful vineyards, and shall not drink
the wine of them.

5:12. Because I know your manifold crimes, and your grievous sins:
enemies of the just, taking bribes, and oppressing the poor in the
gate.

5:13. Therefore the prudent shall keep silence at that time, for it is
an evil time.

5:14. Seek ye good, and not evil, that you may live: and the Lord the
God of hosts will be with you, as you have said.

5:15. Hate evil, and love good, and establish judgment in the gate: it
may be the Lord the God of hosts may have mercy on the remnant of
Joseph.

5:16. Therefore thus saith the Lord the God of hosts the sovereign
Lord: In every street there shall be wailing: and in all places that
are without, they shall say: Alas, alas! and they shall call the
husbandman to mourning, and such as are skilful in lamentation to
lament.

5:17. And in all vineyards there shall be wailing: because I will pass
through in the midst of thee, saith the Lord.

5:18. Woe to them that desire the day of the Lord: to what end is it
for you? the day of the Lord is darkness, and not light.

5:19. As if a man should flee from the face of a lion, and a bear
should meet him: or enter into the house, and lean with his hand upon
the wall, and a serpent should bite him.

5:20. Shall not the day of the Lord be darkness, and not light: and
obscurity, and no brightness in it?

5:21. I hate, and have rejected your festivities: and I will not
receive the odour of your assemblies.

5:22. And if you offer me holocausts, and your gifts, I will not
receive them: neither will I regard the vows of your fat beasts.

5:23. Take away from me the tumult of thy songs: and I will not hear
the canticles of thy harp.

5:24. But judgment shall be revealed as water, and justice as a mighty
torrent.

5:25. Did you offer victims and sacrifices to me in the desert for
forty years, O house of Israel?

Did you offer, etc. . .Except the sacrifices that were offered at the
first, in the dedication of the tabernacle, the Israelites offered no
sacrifices in the desert.

5:26.But you carried a tabernacle for your Moloch, and the image of
your idols, the star of your god, which you made to yourselves.

A tabernacle, etc. . .All this alludes to the idolatry which they
committed, when they were drawn away by the daughters of Moab to the
worship of their gods. Num. 25.

5:27. And I will cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus, saith
the Lord, the God of hosts is his name.



Amos Chapter 6


The desolation of Israel for their pride and luxury.

6:1. Woe to you that are wealthy in Sion, and to you that have
confidence in the mountain of Samaria: ye great men, heads of the
people, that go in with state into the house of Israel.

6:2. Pass ye over to Chalane, and see, and go from thence into Emath
the great: and go down into Geth of the Philistines, and to all the
best kingdoms of these: if their border be larger than your border.

6:3. You that are separated unto the evil day: and that approach to the
throne of iniquity;

6:4. You that sleep upon beds of ivory, and are wanton on your couches:
that eat the lambs out of the flock, and the calves out of the midst of
the herd;

6:5. You that sing to the sound of the psaltery: they have thought
themselves to have instruments of music like David;

6:6. That drink wine in bowls, and anoint themselves with the best
ointments: and they are not concerned for the affliction of Joseph.

6:7. Wherefore now they shall go captive at the head of them that go
into captivity: and the faction of the luxurious ones shall be taken
away.

6:8. The Lord God hath sworn by his own soul, saith the Lord the God of
hosts: I detest the pride of Jacob, and I hate his houses, and I will
deliver up the city with the inhabitants thereof.

6:9. And if there remain ten men in one house, they also shall die.

6:10. And a man's kinsman shall take him up, and shall burn him, that
he may carry the bones out of the house; and he shall say to him that
is in the inner rooms of the house: Is there yet any with thee?

6:11. And he shall answer: There is an end. And he shall say to him:
Hold thy peace, and mention not the name of the Lord.

6:12. For behold the Lord hath commanded, and he will strike the
greater house with breaches, and the lesser house with clefts.

6:13. Can horses run upon the rocks, or can any one plough with
buffles? for you have turned judgment into bitterness, and the fruit of
justice into wormwood.

6:14. You that rejoice in a thing of nought: you that say: Have we not
taken unto us horns by our own strength?

6:15. But behold, I will raise up a nation against you, O house of
Israel, saith the Lord the God of hosts; and they shall destroy you
from the entrance of Emath, even to the torrent of the desert.



Amos Chapter 7


The prophet sees, in three visions, evils coming upon Israel: he is
accused of treason by the false priest of Bethel.

7:1. These things the Lord God shewed to me: and behold the locust was
formed in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter rain, and lo,
it was the latter rain after the king's mowing.

The locust, etc. . .These judgments by locusts and fire, which, by the
prophet's intercession, were moderated, signify the former invasions of
the Assyrians under Phul and Theglathphalasar, before the utter
desolation of Israel by Salmanasar.

7:2. And it came to pass, that when they had made an end of eating the
grass of the land, I said: O Lord God, be merciful, I beseech thee: who
shall raise up Jacob, for he is very little?

7:3. The Lord had pity upon this: It shall not be, said the Lord.

7:4. These things the Lord God shewed to me: and behold the Lord called
for judgment unto fire, and it devoured the great deep, and ate up a
part at the same time.

7:5. And I said: O Lord God, cease, I beseech thee, who shall raise up
Jacob, for he is a little one?

7:6. The Lord had pity upon this. Yea this also shall not be, said the
Lord God.

7:7. These things the Lord shewed to me: and behold the Lord was
standing upon a plastered wall, and in his hand a mason's trowel.

7:8. And the Lord said to me: What seest thou, Amos? And I said: A
mason's trowel. And the Lord said: Behold, I will lay down the trowel
in the midst of my people Israel. I will plaster them over no more.

7:9. And the high places of the idol shall be thrown down, and the
sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste: and I will rise up against
the house of Jeroboam with the sword.

7:10. And Amasias the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of Israel,
saying: Amos hath rebelled against thee in the midst of the house of
Israel: the land is not able to bear all his words.

7:11. For thus saith Amos: Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel
shall be carried away captive out of their own land.

Jeroboam shall die by the sword. . .The prophet did not say this; but
that the Lord would rise up against the house of Jeroboam with the
sword: which was verified, when Zacharias, the son and successor of
Jeroboam, was slain by the sword. 4 Kings 15.10.

7:12. And Amasias said to Amos: Thou seer, go, flee away into the land
of Juda: and eat bread there, and prophesy there.

7:13. But prophesy not again any more in Bethel: because it is the
king's sanctuary, and it is the house of the kingdom.

7:14. And Amos answered and said to Amasias: I am not a prophet, nor am
I the son of a prophet: but I am a herdsman plucking wild figs.

I am not a prophet. . .That is, I am not a prophet by education: nor is
prophesying my calling or profession: but I am a herdsman, whom God was
pleased to send hither to prophesy to Israel.

7:15. And the Lord took me when I followed the flock, and the Lord said
to me: Go, prophesy to my people Israel.

7:16. And now hear thou the word of the Lord: Thou sayest, thou shalt
not prophesy against Israel, and thou shalt not drop thy word upon the
house of the idol.

The house of the idol. . .Viz., of the calf worshipped in Bethel.

7:17. Therefore thus saith the Lord: Thy wife shall play the harlot in
the city, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and
thy land shall be measured by a line: and thou shalt die in a polluted
land, and Israel shall go into captivity out of their land.



Amos Chapter 8


Under the figure of a hook, which bringeth down the fruit, the
approaching desolation of Israel is foreshewed for their avarice and
injustices.

8:1. These things the Lord shewed to me: and behold a hook to draw down
the fruit.

8:2. And he said: What seest thou, Amos? And I said: A hook to draw
down fruit. And the Lord said to me: The end is come upon my people
Israel: I will not again pass by them any more.

8:3. And the hinges of the temple shall screak in that day, saith the
Lord God: many shall die: silence shall be cast in every place.

8:4. Hear this, you that crush the poor, and make the needy of the land
to fail,

8:5. Saying: When will the month be over, and we shall sell our wares:
and the sabbath, and we shall open the corn: that we may lessen the
measure, and increase the sicle, and may convey in deceitful balances,

8:6. That we may possess the needy for money, and the poor for a pair
of shoes, and may sell the refuse of the corn?

8:7. The Lord hath sworn against the pride of Jacob: surely I will
never forget all their works.

8:8. Shall not the land tremble for this, and every one mourn that
dwelleth therein: and rise up altogether as a river, and be cast out,
and run down as the river of Egypt?

8:9. And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord God, that
the sun shall go down at midday, and I will make the earth dark in the
day of light:

8:10. And I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your songs
into lamentation: and I will bring up sackcloth upon every back of
yours, and baldness upon every head: and I will make it as the mourning
of an only son, and the latter end thereof as a bitter day.

8:11. Behold the days come, saith the Lord, and I will send forth a
famine into the land: not a famine of bread, nor a thirst of water, but
of hearing the word of the Lord.

8:12. And they shall move from sea to sea, and from the north to the
east: they shall go about seeking the word of the Lord, and shall not
find it.

8:13. In that day the fair virgins, and the young men shall faint for
thirst.

8:14. They that swear by the sin of Samaria, and say: Thy God, O Dan,
liveth: and the way of Bersabee liveth: and they shall fall, and shall
rise no more.



Amos Chapter 9


The certainty of the desolation of Israel: the restoring of the
tabernacle of David, and the conversion of the Gentiles to the church;
which shall flourish for ever.

9:1. I saw the Lord standing upon the altar, and he said: Strike the
hinges, and let the lintels be shook: for there is covetousness in the
head of them all, and I will slay the last of them with the sword:
there shall be no flight for them: they shall flee, and he that shall
flee of them shall not be delivered.

9:2. Though they go down even to hell, thence shall my hand bring them
out: and though they climb up to heaven, thence will I bring them down.

9:3. And though they be hid in the top of Carmel, I will search and
take them away from thence: and though they hide themselves from my
eyes in the depth of the sea, there will I command the serpent and he
shall bite them.

9:4. And if they go into captivity before their enemies, there will I
command the sword, and it shall kill them. And I will set my eyes upon
them for evil, and not for good.

9:5. And the Lord the God of hosts is he who toucheth the earth, and it
shall melt: and all that dwell therein shall mourn: and it shall rise
up as a river, and shall run down as the river of Egypt.

9:6. He that buildeth his ascension in heaven, and hath founded his
bundle upon the earth: who calleth the waters of the sea, and poureth
them out upon the face of the earth, the Lord is his name.

His ascension. . .That is, his high throne.--Ibid. His bundle. . .That
is, his church bound up together by the bands of one faith and communion.

9:7. Are not you as the children of the Ethiopians unto me, O children
of Israel, saith the Lord? did not I bring up Israel, out of the land
of Egypt: and the Philistines out of Cappadocia, and the Syrians out of
Cyrene?

As the children of the Ethiopians. . .That is, as black as they, by your
iniquities.

9:8. Behold the eyes of the Lord God are upon the sinful kingdom, and I
will destroy it from the face of the earth: but yet I will not utterly
destroy the house of Jacob, saith the Lord.

9:9. For behold I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel
among all nations, as corn is sifted in a sieve: and there shall not a
little stone fall to the ground.

9:10. All the sinners of my people shall fall by the sword: who say:
The evils shall not approach, and shall not come upon us.

9:11. In that day I will raise up the tabernacle of David, that is
fallen: and I will close up the breaches of the walls thereof, and
repair what was fallen: and I will rebuild it as in the days of old.

9:12. That they may possess the remnant of Edom, and all nations,
because my name is invoked upon them: saith the Lord that doth these
things.

9:13. Behold the days come, saith the Lord, when the ploughman shall
overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him that soweth seed:
and the mountains shall drop sweetness, and every hill shall be tilled.

Shall overtake, etc. . .By this is meant the great abundance of
spiritual blessings; which, as it were, by a constant succession, shall
enrich the church of Christ.

9:14. And I will bring back the captivity of my people Israel: and they
shall build the abandoned cities, and inhabit them: and they shall
plant vineyards, and drink the wine of them: and shall make gardens,
and eat the fruits of them. And I will plant them upon their own land:
and I will no more pluck them out of their land which I have given
them, saith the Lord thy God.




THE PROPHECY OF ABDIAS



ABDIAS, whose name is interpreted THE SERVANT OF THE LORD, is believed
to have prophesied about the same time as OSEE, JOEL, and AMOS: though
some of the Hebrews, who believe him to be the same with ACHAB's
steward, make him much more ancient. His prophecy is the shortest of
any in number of words, but yields to none, says ST. JEROME, in the
sublimity of mysteries. It contains but one chapter.



Abdias Chapter 1


The destruction of Edom for their pride: and the wrongs they did to
Jacob: the salvation and victory of Israel.

1:1. The vision of Abdias. Thus saith the Lord God to Edom: We have
heard a rumour from the Lord, and he hath sent an ambassador to the
nations: Arise, and let us rise up to battle against him.

1:2. Behold I have made thee small among the nations: thou art
exceeding contemptible.

1:3. The pride of thy heart hath lifted thee up, who dwellest in the
clefts of the rocks, and settest up thy throne on high: who sayest in
thy heart: Who shall bring me down to the ground?

1:4. Though thou be exalted as an eagle, and though thou set thy nest
among the stars: thence will I bring thee down, saith the Lord.

1:5. If thieves had gone in to thee, if robbers by night, how wouldst
thou have held thy peace? would they not have stolen till they had
enough? if the grapegatherers had come in to thee, would they not have
left thee at the least a cluster?

1:6. How have they searched Esau, how have they sought out his hidden
things?

1:7. They have sent thee out even to the border: all the men of thy
confederacy have deceived thee: the men of thy peace have prevailed
against thee: they that eat with thee shall lay snares under thee:
there is no wisdom in him.

1:8. Shall not I in that day, saith the Lord, destroy the wise out of
Edom, and understanding out of the mount of Esau?

1:9. And thy valiant men of the south shall be afraid, that man may be
cut off from the mount of Esau.

1:10. For the slaughter, and for the iniquity against thy brother
Jacob, confusion shall cover thee, and thou shalt perish for ever.

1:11. In the day when thou stoodest against him, when strangers carried
away his army captive, and foreigners entered into his gates, and cast
lots upon Jerusalem: thou also wast as one of them.

1:12. But thou shalt not look on in the day of thy brother, in the day
of his leaving his country: and thou shalt not rejoice over the
children of Juda, in the day of their destruction: and thou shalt not
magnify thy mouth in the day of distress.

Thou shalt not look, etc. . .or, thou shouldst not, etc. It is a
reprehension for what they had done, and at the same time a declaration
that these things should not pass unpunished.--Ibid. Thou shalt not
magnify thy mouth. . .That is, thou shalt not speak arrogantly against
the children of Juda as insulting them in their distress.

1:13. Neither shalt thou enter into the gate of my people in the day of
their ruin: neither shalt thou also look on in his evils in the day of
his calamity: and thou shalt not be sent out against his army in the
day of his desolation.

1:14. Neither shalt thou stand in the crossways to kill them that flee:
and thou shalt not shut up them that remain of him in the day of
tribulation.

1:15. For the day of the Lord is at hand upon all nations: as thou hast
done, so shall it be done to thee: he will turn thy reward upon thy own
head.

1:16. For as you have drunk upon my holy mountain, so all nations shall
drink continually: and they shall drink, and sup up, and they shall be
as though they were not.

1:17. And in mount Sion shall be salvation, and it shall be holy, and
the house of Jacob shall possess those that possessed them.

1:18. And the house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a
flame, and the house of Esau stubble: and they shall be kindled in
them, and shall devour them: and there shall be no remains of the house
of Esau, for the Lord hath spoken it.

1:19. And they that are toward the south, shall inherit the mount of
Esau, and they that are in the plains, the Philistines: and they shall
possess the country of Ephraim, and the country of Samaria: and
Benjamin shall possess Galaad.

1:20. And the captivity of this host of the children of Israel, all the
places of the Chanaanites even to Sarepta: and the captivity of
Jerusalem that is in Bosphorus, shall possess the cities of the south.

1:21. And saviours shall come up into mount Sion to judge the mount of
Esau: and the kingdom shall be for the Lord.




THE PROPHECY OF JONAS



JONAS prophesied in the reign of JEREBOAM the second: as we learn from
4 Kings 14.25. To whom also he foretold his success in restoring all
the borders of Israel. He was of GETH OPHER in the tribe of ZABULON,
and consequently of GALILEE: which confutes that assertion of the
Pharisees, John 7.52, that no prophet ever rose out of GALILEE. He
prophesied and prefigured in his own person the death and resurrection
of CHRIST: and was the only one among the prophets that was sent to
preach to the Gentiles.



Jonas Chapter 1


Jonas being sent to preach in Ninive, fleeth away by sea: a tempest
riseth: of which he being found, by lot, to be the cause, is cast into
the sea, which thereupon is calmed.

1:1. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonas, the son of Amathi, saying:

1:2. Arise and go to Ninive, the great city, and preach in it: For the
wickedness thereof is come up before me.

Nineve. . .The capital city of the Assyrian empire.

1:3. And Jonas rose up to flee into Tharsis from the face of the Lord,
and he went down to Joppe, and found a ship going to Tharsis: and he
paid the fare thereof, and went down into it, to go with them to
Tharsis from the face of the Lord,

Tharsis. . .Which some take to be Tharsus of Cilicia, others to be
Tartessus of Spain, others to be Carthage.

1:4. But the Lord sent a great wind to the sea: and a great tempest was
raised in the sea, and the ship was in danger to be broken.

1:5. And the mariners were afraid, and the men cried to their god: and
they cast forth the wares that were in the ship, into the sea, to
lighten it of them: and Jonas went down into the inner part of the
ship, and fell into a deep sleep.

A deep sleep. . .This is a lively image of the insensibility of sinners,
fleeing from God, and threatened on every side with his judgments: and
yet sleeping as if they were secure.

1:6. And the ship master came to him and said to him: Why art thou fast
asleep? rise up call upon thy God, if so be that God will think of us
that we may not perish.

1:7. And they said every one to his fellow: Come and let us cast lots,
that we may know why this evil is upon us. And they cast lots, and the
lot fell upon Jonas.

1:8. And they said to him: Tell us for what cause this evil is upon us,
what is thy business? of what country art thou? and whither goest thou?
or of what people art thou?

1:9. And he said to them: I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, and the
God of heaven, who made both the sea and the dry land.

1:10. And the men were greatly afraid, and they said to him: Why hast
thou done this? (For the men knew that he fled from the face of the
Lord: because he had told them.)

1:11. And they said to him: What shall we do with thee, that the sea
may be calm to us? for the sea flowed and swelled.

1:12. And he said to them: take me up, and cast me into the sea, and
the sea shall be calm to you: for I know for my sake this great tempest
is upon you.

1:13. And the men rowed hard to return the land, but they were not
able: because the sea tossed and swelled upon them.

1:14. And they cried to the Lord, and said: We beseech thee, O Lord let
us not perish for this man's life, and lay not upon us innocent blood:
for thou, oh Lord, hast done as it pleased thee.

1:15. And they took Jonas, and cast him into the sea, and the sea
ceased from raging.

1:16. And the men feared the Lord exceedingly, and sacrificed victims
to the Lord, and made vows.



Jonas Chapter 2


Jonas is swallowed up by a great fish: he prayeth with confidence in
God; and the fish casteth him out on the dry land.

2:1. Now the Lord prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonas: and Jonas
was in the belly of a fish for three days and three nights.

2:2. And Jonas prayed to the Lord, his God, out of the belly of the
fish.

2:3. And he said: I cried out of my affliction to the Lord, and he
heard me: I cried out of the belly of hell, and thou hast heard my
voice.

2:4. And thou hast cast me forth into the deep, in the heart of the
sea, and a flood hast compassed me: all thy billows, and thy waves have
passed over me.

2:5. And I said: I am cast away out of the sight of thy eyes: but yet I
shall see the holy temple again.

2:6. The waters compassed me about even to the soul: the deep hath
closed me round about, the sea hath covered my head.

2:7. I went down to the lowest parts of the mountains: the bars of the
earth have shut me up for ever: and thou wilt bring up my life from
corruption, O Lord, my God.

2:8. When my soul was in distress within me, I remembered the Lord:
that my prayer may come to thee, unto the holy temple.

2:9. They that in vain observe vanities, forsake their own mercy.

2:10. But I with the voice of praise will sacrifice to thee: I will pay
whatsoever I have vowed for my salvation to the Lord.

2:11. And the Lord spoke to the fish: and it vomited out Jonas upon the
dry land.

Spoke to the fish. . .God's speaking to the fish, was nothing else but
his will, which all things obey.



Jonas Chapter 3


Jonas is sent again to preach in Ninive. Upon their fasting and
repentance, God recalleth the sentence by which they were to be
destroyed.

3:1. And the word of the Lord came to Jonas the second time saying:

3:2. Arise, and go to Ninive, the great city: and preach in it the
preaching that I bid thee.

3:3. And Jonas arose, and went to Ninive, according to the word of the
Lord: now Ninive was a great city of three days' journey.

Of three days' journey. . .By the computation of some ancient
historians, Ninive was about fifty miles round: so that to go through
all the chief streets and public places was three days' journey.

3:4. And Jonas began to enter into the city one day's journey: and he
cried and said: Yet forty days and Ninive shall be destroyed.

3:5. And the men of Ninive believed in God: and they proclaimed a fast,
and put on sackcloth from the greatest to the least.

3:6. And the word came to the king of Ninive: and he rose up out of his
throne, and cast away his robe from him, and was clothed in sackcloth,
and sat in ashes.

3:7. And he caused it to be proclaimed and published in Ninive, from
the mouth of the king and of his princes, saying: Let neither men nor
beasts, oxen, nor sheep taste anything: let them not feed, nor drink
water.

3:8. And let men and beasts be covered with sackcloth, and cry to the
Lord with all their strength, and let them turn every one from his evil
way, and from the iniquity that is in their hands.

3:9. Who can tell if God will turn, and forgive: and will turn away
from his fierce anger, and we shall not perish?

3:10. And God saw their works, that they were turned from their evil
way: and God had mercy with regard to the evil which he had said that
he would do to them, and he did it not.



Jonas Chapter 4


4:1. And Jonas was exceedingly troubled, and was angry:

Was exceedingly troubled, etc. . .His concern was lest he should pass
for a false prophet; or rather, lest God's word, by this occasion,
might come to be slighted and disbelieved.

4:2. And he prayed to the Lord, and said: I beseech thee, O Lord, is
not this what I said, when I was yet in my own country? therefore I
went before to flee into Tharsis: for I know that thou art a gracious
and merciful God, patient, and of much compassion, and easy to forgive
evil.

4:3. And now, O Lord, I beseech thee take my life from me: for it is
better for me to die than to live.

4:4. And the Lord said: Dost thou think thou hast reason to be angry?

4:5. Then Jonas went out of the city, and sat toward the east side of
the city: and he made himself a booth there, and he sat under it in the
shadow, till he might see what would befall the city.

4:6. And the Lord God prepared an ivy, and it came up over the head of
Jonas, to be a shadow over his head, and to cover him (for he was
fatigued): and Jonas was exceeding glad of the ivy.

The Lord God prepared an ivy. . .Hederam. In the Hebrew it is Kikajon,
which some render a gourd: others a palmerist, or palma Christi.

4:7. But God prepared a worm, when the morning arose on the following
day: and it struck the ivy and it withered.

4:8. And when the sun was risen, the Lord commanded a hot and burning
wind: and the sun beat upon the head of Jonas, and he broiled with the
heat: and he desired for his soul that he might die, and said: It is
better for me to die than to live.

4:9. And the Lord said to Jonas: Dost thou think thou hast reason to be
angry, for the ivy? And he said: I am angry with reason even unto
death.

4:10. And the Lord said: Thou art grieved for the ivy, for which thou
hast not laboured, nor made it to grow, which in one night came up, and
in one night perished.

4:11. And shall I not spare Ninive, that great city, in which there are
more than a hundred and twenty thousand persons, that know how to
distinguish between their right hand and their left, and many beasts?




THE PROPHECY OF MICHEAS



MICHEAS, of Morasti, a little town in the tribe of JUDA, was
contemporary with the prophet ISAIAS: whom he resembles both in his
spirit and his style. He is different from the prophet MICHEAS
mentioned in the third book of Kings, chap. 22. For that MICHEAS lived
in the days of king ACHAB, one hundred and fifty years before the time
of EZECHIAS, under whom this MICHEAS prophesied.



Micheas Chapter 1


Samaria for her sins shall be destroyed by the Assyrians; they shall
also invade Juda and Jerusalem.

1:1. The word of the Lord, that came to Micheas, the Morasthite, in the
days of Joathan, Achaz, and Ezechias, kings of Juda: which he saw
concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.

1:2. Hear, all ye people: and let the earth give ear, and all that is
therein: and let the Lord God be a witness to you, the Lord from his
holy temple.

1:3. For behold the Lord will come forth out of his place: and he will
come down, and will tread upon the high places of the earth.

1:4. And the mountains shall be melted under him: and the valleys shall
be cleft, as wax before the fire, and as waters that run down a steep
place.

1:5. For the wickedness of Jacob is all this, and for the sins of the
house of Israel. What is the wickedness of Jacob? is it not Samaria?
and what are the high places of Juda? are they not Jerusalem?

1:6. And I will make Samaria as a heap of stones in the field when a
vineyard is planted: and I will bring down the stones thereof into the
valley, and will lay her foundations bare.

1:7. And all her graven things shall be cut in pieces, and all her
wages shall be burnt with fire, and I will bring to destruction all her
idols: for they were gathered together of the hire of a harlot, and
unto the hire of a harlot they shall return.

Her wages. . .That is, her donaries or presents offered to her idols: or
the hire of all her traffic and labour.--Ibid. Of the hire of a harlot,
etc. . .They were gathered together by one idolatrous city, viz.,
Samaria: and they shall be carried away to another idolatrous city,
viz., Ninive.

1:8. Therefore will I lament, and howl: I will go stript and naked: I
will make a wailing like the dragons, and a mourning like the
ostriches.

1:9. Because her wound is desperate, because it is come even to Juda,
it hath touched the gate of my people, even to Jerusalem.

It hath touched the gate, etc. . .That is, the destruction of Samaria
shall be followed by the invasion of my people of Juda, and the
Assyrians shall come and lay all waste even to the confines of
Jerusalem.

1:10. Declare ye it not in Geth, weep ye not with tears: in the house
of Dust sprinkle yourselves with dust.

Declare ye it not in Geth. . .Viz., amongst the Philistines, lest they
rejoice at your calamity.--Ibid. Weep ye not, etc. . .Keep in your
tears, that you may not give your enemies an occasion of insulting over
you; but in your own houses, or in your house of dust, your earthly
habitation, sprinkle yourselves with dust, and put on the habit of
penitents. Some take the house of dust (in Hebrew, Aphrah) to be the
proper name of a city.

1:11. And pass away, O thou that dwellest in the beautiful place,
covered with thy shame: she went not forth that dwelleth in the
confines: the house adjoining shall receive mourning from you, which
stood by herself.

Thou that dwellest in the Beautiful place, viz., in Samaria. In the
Hebrew the Beautiful place is expressed by the word Sapir, which some
take for the proper name of a city.--Ibid. She went not forth,
etc. . .that is, they that dwelt in the confines came not forth, but kept
themselves within, for fear.--Ibid. The house adjoining, etc. . .Viz.,
Judea and Jerusalem, neighbours to Samaria, and partners in her sins,
shall share also in her mourning and calamity; though they have
pretended to stand by themselves, trusting in their strength.

1:12. For she is become weak unto good that dwelleth in bitterness: for
evil is come down from the Lord into the gate of Jerusalem.

She is become weak, etc. . .Jerusalem is become weak unto any good;
because she dwells in the bitterness of sin.

1:13. A tumult of chariots hath astonished the inhabitants of Lachis:
it is the beginning of sin to the daughter of Sion for in thee were
found the crimes of Israel.

It is the beginning, etc. . .That is, Lachis was the first city of Juda
that learned from Samaria the worship of idols, and communicated it to
Jerusalem.

1:14. Therefore shall she send messengers to the inheritance of Geth:
the houses of lying to deceive the kings of Israel.

Therefore shall she send, etc. . .Lachis shall send to Geth for help:
but in vain: for Geth, instead of helping, shall be found to be a house
of lying and deceit to Israel.

1:15. Yet will I bring an heir to thee that dwellest in Maresa: even to
Odollam shall the glory of Israel come.

An heir, etc. . .Maresa (which was the name of a city of Juda) signifies
inheritance: but here God by his prophet tells the Jews, that he will
bring them an heir to take possession of their inheritance: and that
the glory of Israel shall be obliged to give place, and to retire even
to Odollam, a city in the extremity of their dominions. And therefore
he exhorts them to penance in the following verse.

1:16. Make thee bald, and be polled for thy delicate children: enlarge
thy baldness as the eagle: for they are carried into captivity from
thee.



Micheas Chapter 2


The Israelites by their crying injustices provoke God to punish them.
He shall at last restore Jacob.

2:1. Woe to you that devise that which is unprofitable, and work evil
in your beds: in the morning light they execute it, because their hand
is against God.

2:2. And they have coveted fields, and taken them by violence, and
houses they have forcibly taken away: and oppressed a man and his
house, a man and his inheritance.

2:3. Therefore thus saith the Lord: Behold I devise an evil against
this family: from which you shall not withdraw your necks, and you
shall not walk haughtily, for this is a very evil time.

2:4. In that day a parable shall be taken up upon you, and a song shall
be sung with melody by them that say: We are laid waste and spoiled:
the portion of my people is changed: how shall he depart from me,
whereas he is returning that will divide our land?

How shall he depart, etc. . .How do you pretend to say that the Assyrian
is departing; when indeed he is coming to divide our lands amongst his
subjects?

2:5. Therefore thou shalt have none that shall cast the cord of a lot
in the assembly of the Lord.

Thou shalt have none, etc. . .Thou shalt have no longer any lot or
inheritance in the land of the people of the Lord.

2:6. Speak ye not, saying: It shall not drop upon these, confusion
shall not take them.

It shall not drop, etc. . .That is, the prophecy shall not come upon
these. Such were the sentiments of the people that were unwilling to
believe the threats of the prophets.

2:7. The house of Jacob saith: Is the Spirit of the Lord straitened or
are these his thoughts? Are not my words good to him that walketh
uprightly?

2:8. But my people, on the contrary, are risen up as an enemy: you have
taken away the cloak off from the coat: and them that passed harmless
you have turned to war.

You have taken away, etc. . .You have even stripped people of their
necessary garments: and have treated such as were innocently passing on
the way, as if they were at war with you.

2:9. You have cast out the women of my people from their houses, in
which they took delight: you have taken my praise forever from their
children.

You have cast out, etc. . .either by depriving them of their houses: or,
by your crimes, given occasion to their being carried away captives,
and their children, by that means, never learning to praise the Lord.

2:10. Arise ye, and depart, for there is no rest here for you. For that
uncleanness of the land, it shall be corrupted with a grievous
corruption.

2:11. Would God I were not a man that hath the spirit, and that I
rather spoke a lie: I will let drop to thee of wine, and of
drunkenness: and it shall be this people upon whom it shall drop.

Would God, etc. . .The prophet could have wished, out of his love to his
people, that he might be deceived in denouncing to them these evils
that were to fall upon them: but by conforming himself to the will of
God, he declares to them, that he is sent to prophesy, literally to let
drop upon them, the wine of God's indignation, with which they should
be made drunk; that is, stupified and cast down.

2:12. I will assemble and gather together all of thee, O Jacob: I will
bring together the remnant of Israel, I will put them together as a
flock in the fold, as sheep in the midst of the sheepcotes, they shall
make a tumult by reason of the multitude of men.

2:13. For he shall go up that shall open the way before them: they
shall divide and pass through the gate, and shall come in by it: and
their king shall pass before them, and the Lord at the head of them.



Micheas Chapter 3


For the sins of the rich oppressing the poor, of false prophets
flattering for lucre, and of judges perverting justice, Jerusalem and
the temple shall be destroyed.

3:1. And I said: Hear, O ye princes of Jacob, and ye chiefs of the
house of Israel: Is it not your part to know judgment,

3:2. You that hate good, and love evil: that violently pluck off their
skins from them and their flesh from their bones?

3:3. Who have eaten the flesh of my people, and have flayed their skin
off them: and have broken, and chopped their bones as for the kettle,
and as flesh in the midst of the pot.

3:4. Then shall they cry to the Lord, and he will not hear them: and he
will hide his face from them at that time, as they have behaved
wickedly in their devices.

3:5. Thus saith the Lord concerning the prophets that make my people
err: that bite with their teeth, and preach peace: and if a man give
not something into their mouth, they prepare war against him.

3:6. Therefore night shall be to you instead of vision, and darkness to
you instead of divination: and the sun shall go down upon the prophets,
and the day shall be darkened over them.

3:7. And they shall be confounded that see visions, and the diviners
shall be confounded: and they shall all cover their faces, because
there is no answer of God.

3:8. But yet I am filled with the strength of the spirit of the Lord,
with judgment and power: to declare unto Jacob his wickedness and to
Israel his sin.

3:9. Hear this, ye princes of the house of Jacob, and ye judges of the
house of Israel: you that abhor judgment and pervert all that is right.

3:10. You that build up Sion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity.

3:11. Her princes have judged for bribes: and her priests have taught
for hire, and her prophets divined for money: and they leaned upon the
Lord, saying: Is not the Lord in the midst of us? no evil shall come
among us.

3:12. Therefore because of you, Sion shall be ploughed as a field, and
Jerusalem shall be as a heap of stones, and the mountain of the temple
as the high places of the forests.



Micheas Chapter 4


The glory of the church of Christ, by the conversion of the Gentiles.
The Jews shall be carried captives to Babylon, and be delivered again.

4:1. And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of
the house of the Lord shall be prepared in the top of the mountains,
and high above the hills: and people shall flow to it.

4:2. And many nations shall come in haste, and say: Come, let us go up
to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob: and
he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for the
law shall go forth out of Sion, and the word of the Lord out of
Jerusalem.

4:3. And he shall judge among many people, and rebuke strong nations
afar off: and they shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their
spears into spades: nation shall not take sword against nation: neither
shall they learn war anymore.

Neither shall they learn, etc. . .The law of Christ is a law of peace;
and all his true subjects, as much as lies in them love and keep peace
with all the world.

4:4. And every man shall sit under his vine, and under his fig tree,
and there shall be none to make them afraid, for the mouth of the Lord
of hosts hath spoken.

4:5. For all people will walk every one in the name of his god: but we
will walk in the name of the Lord, our God, for ever and ever.

4:6. In that day, saith the Lord, I will gather up her that halteth:
and her that I had cast out, I will gather up: and her whom I had
afflicted.

4:7. And I will make her that halted, a remnant: and her that had been
afflicted, a mighty nation: and the Lord will reign over them in Mount
Sion, from this time now and forever.

4:8. And thou, O cloudy tower of the flock, of the daughter of Sion,
unto thee shall it come: yea the first power shall come, the kingdom to
the daughter of Jerusalem.

4:9. Now, why art thou drawn together with grief? Hast thou no king in
thee, or is thy counselor perished, because sorrow hath taken thee as a
woman in labour.

4:10. Be in pain and labour, O daughter of Sion, as a woman that
bringeth forth: for now shalt thou go out of the city, and shalt dwell
in the country, and shalt come even to Babylon, there thou shalt be
delivered: there the Lord will redeem thee out of the hand of thy
enemies.

4:11. And now many nations are gathered together against thee, and they
say: Let her be stoned: and let our eye look upon Sion.

4:12. But they have not known the thoughts of the Lord, and have not
understood his counsel: because he hath gathered them together as the
hay of the floor.

4:13. Arise, and tread, O daughter of Sion: for I will make thy horn
iron, and thy hoofs I will make brass: and thou shalt beat in pieces
many peoples, and shalt immolate the spoils of them to the Lord, and
their strength to the Lord of the whole earth.



Micheas Chapter 5


The birth of Christ in Bethlehem: his reign and spiritual conquests.

5:1. Now shalt thou be laid waste, O daughter of the robber: they have
laid siege against us, with a rod shall they strike the cheek of the
judge of Israel.

Daughter of the robber. . .Some understand this of Babylon; which robbed
and pillaged the temple of God: others understand it of Jerusalem; by
reason of the many rapines and oppressions committed there.

5:2. And thou Bethlehem Ephrata, art a little one among the thousands
of Juda, out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be the
ruler in Israel: and his going forth is from the beginning, from the
days of eternity.

His going forth, etc. . .That is, he who as man shall be born in thee,
as God was born of his Father from all eternity.

5:3. Therefore will he give them up even till the time wherein she that
travaileth shall bring forth: and the remnant of his brethren shall be
converted to the children of Israel.

5:4. And he shall stand, and feed in the strength of the Lord, in the
height of the name of the Lord, his God: and they shall be converted,
for now shall he be magnified even to the ends of the earth.

5:5. And this man shall be our peace, when the Assyrian shall come into
our land, and when he shall set his foot in our houses: and we shall
raise against him seven shepherds, and eight principal men.

The Assyrian. . .That is, the persecutors of the church: who are here
called Assyrians by the prophet: because the Assyrians were at that
time the chief enemies and persecutors of the people of God.--Ibid.
Seven shepherds, etc. . .Viz., the pastors of God's church, and the
defenders of the faith. The number seven in scripture is taken to
signify many: and when eight is joined with it, we are to understand
that the number will be very great.

5:6. And they shall feed the land of Assyria with the sword, and the
land of Nemrod with the spears thereof: and he shall deliver us from
the Assyrian when he shall come into our land, and when he shall tread
in our borders.

They shall feed, etc. . .They shall make spiritual conquests in the
lands of their persecutors, with the word of the spirit, which is the
word of God. Eph. 6.17.

5:7. And the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many peoples, as
a dew from the Lord, and as drops upon the grass, which waiteth not for
man, nor tarrieth for the children of men.

The remnant of Jacob. . .Viz., the apostles, and the first preachers of
the Jewish nation; whose doctrine, like dew, shall make the plants of
the converted Gentiles grow up, without waiting for any man to
cultivate them by human learning.

5:8. And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the Gentiles, in the midst
of many peoples, as a lion among the beasts of the forests, and as a
young lion among the flocks of sheep: who, when he shall go through,
and tread down, and take there is none to deliver.

As a lion, etc. . .This denotes the fortitude of these first preachers;
and their success in their spiritual enterprises.

5:9. Thy hand shall be lifted up over thy enemies, and all thy enemies
shall be cut off.

5:10. And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord, that I
will take away thy horses out of the midst of thee, and will destroy
thy chariots.

I will take away thy horses, etc. . .Some understand this, and all that
follows to the end of the chapter, as addressed to the enemies of the
church. But it may as well be understood of the converts to the church:
who should no longer put their trust in any of these things.

5:11. And I will destroy the cities of thy land, and will throw down
all thy strong holds, and I will take away sorceries out of thy hand,
and there shall be no divinations in thee.

5:12. And I will destroy thy graven things, and thy statues, out of the
midst of thee: and thou shalt no more adore the works of thy hands.

5:13. And I will pluck up thy groves out of the midst of thee: and will
crush thy cities.

5:14. And I will execute vengeance in wrath, and in indignation, among
all the nations that have not given ear.



Micheas Chapter 6


God expostulates with the Jews for their ingratitude and sins: for
which they shall be punished.

6:1. Hear ye what the Lord saith: Arise, contend thou in judgment
against the mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice.

The mountains, etc. . .That is, the great ones, the princes of the
people.

6:2. Let the mountains hear the judgment of the Lord, and the strong
foundations of the earth: for the Lord will enter into judgment with
his people, and he will plead against Israel.

6:3. O my people, what have I done to thee, or in what have I molested
thee? answer thou me.

6:4. For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and delivered thee
out of the house of slaves: and I sent before thy face Moses, and
Aaron, and Mary.

6:5. O my people, remember, I pray thee, what Balach, the king of Moab,
purposed: and what Balaam, the son of Beor, answered him, from Setim to
Galgal, that thou mightest know the justice of the Lord.

From Setim to Galgal. . .He puts them in mind of the favour he did them,
in not suffering them to be quite destroyed by the evil purpose of
Balach, and the wicked counsel of Balaam: and then gives them a hint of
the wonders he wrought, in order to bring them into the land of
Promise, by stopping the course of the Jordan, in their march from
Setim to Galgal.

6:6. What shall I offer to the Lord that is worthy? wherewith shall I
kneel before the high God? shall I offer holocausts unto him, and
calves of a year old?

What shall I offer, etc. . .This is spoken in the person of the people,
desiring to be informed what they are to do to please God.

6:7. May the Lord be appeased with thousands of rams, or with many
thousands of fat he goats? shall I give my firstborn for my wickedness,
the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?

6:8. I will shew thee, O man, what is good, and what the Lord requireth
of thee: Verily to do judgment, and to love mercy, and to walk
solicitous with thy God.

6:9. The voice of the Lord crieth to the city, and salvation shall be
to them that fear thy name: hear O ye tribes, and who shall approve it?

6:10. As yet there is a fire in the house of the wicked, the treasures
of iniquity, and a scant measure full of wrath.

Full of wrath, etc. . .That is, highly provoking in the sight of God.

6:11. Shall I justify wicked balances, and the deceitful weights of the
bag?

6:12. By which her rich men were filled with iniquity, and the
inhabitants thereof have spoken lies, and their tongue was deceitful in
their mouth.

6:13. And I therefore began to strike thee with desolation for thy
sins.

6:14. Thou shalt eat, but shalt not be filled: and thy humiliation
shall be in the midst of thee: and thou shalt take hold, but shalt not
save: and those whom thou shalt save, I will give up to the sword.

6:15. Thou shalt sow, but shalt not reap: thou shalt tread the olives,
but shalt not be anointed with oil: and the new wine, but shalt not
drink the wine.

6:16. For thou hast kept the statutes of Amri, and all the works of the
house of Achab: and thou hast walked according their wills, that I
should make thee a desolation, and the inhabitants thereof a hissing,
and you shall bear the reproach of my people.

The statutes of Amri, etc. . .The wicked ways of Amri and Achab,
idolatrous kings.



Micheas Chapter 7


The prophet laments, that notwithstanding all his preaching, the
generality are still corrupt in their manners: therefore their
desolation is at hand: but they shall be restored again and prosper;
and all mankind shall be redeemed by Christ.

7:1. Woe is me, for I am become as one that gleaneth in autumn the
grapes of the vintage: there is no cluster to eat, my soul desired the
first ripe figs.


 


Back to Full Books











Google Adsenseuntil the doors unlock,
then pull the handle to open
Press the door lock button on either door
handle when the vehicle is off
Opening the Trunk
Press the trunk release button under the
trunk handle
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
Malfunction Indicators
If an indicator remains on, there may be a problem; see your dealer
On/Off Indicators
Condition Indicators
Action is needed by driver
PASSENGER AIRBAG OFF
next to display screen
VSA OFF
CRUISE CONTROL on
ECON Mode on
Fog lights on
Exterior lights on
Turn signals/hazards on
High beams on
Charging system
Low brake fluid
Anti-Lock Brake System ABS
Malfunction lamp
check engine light
Tire Pressure Monitoring System
TPMS blinks and stays on
Vehicle Stability Assist® VSA
Parking brake on
Release
Seat belt reminder
Fasten seat belts
INSTRUMENT PANEL INDICATORS
Starter system
Brake system
Smart Entry System
Automatic light control
Low oil pressure
Supplemental Restraint System
SRS
Electric Power Steering EPS
Forward Collision Warning
FCW*
Lane Departure Warning
LDW*
Door/Trunk open
Close doors / trunk
Low tire pressure
Add air
Maintenance MinderTM Make dealer appointment
Low fuel
Refill
LDW blinks*
Stay in your lane
FCW blinks*
Brake
CRUISE MAIN on
Immobilizer blinks
Use other vehicle key
and see dealer
Briefly appear with each engine start Red and orange indicators are most critical Blue
and green indicators are used for general information See your Owner’s Manual for
more information
*if equipped
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
Accessing the Information Display
Information Displays INFORMATION DISPLAY
Consists of several displays that provide you with useful information
When you start the engine, the
information display shows your
last active selection from the
previous drive cycle
To toggle between the different
displays, press and release the
select/reset knob repeatedly
Instant fuel economy,
Odometer, Trip meter A,
Outside temperature
Oil life Instant fuel economy, Range,
Trip meter A, Outside
temperature
Instant fuel economy, Average
fuel economy B, Trip meter B,
Outside temperature
Instant fuel economy, Average
fuel economy A, Trip meter A,
Outside temperature Automatic transmission shown
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  Press ECON again to turn
the system off
 The ECON mode indicator comes on
 Press ECON to turn the
system on
ECON Button
ECO ASSISTTM
When turned on, performance of the vehicle’s engine, transmission, cruise control, and
air conditioning system are adjusted to maximize fuel efficiency
Ambient Meter
High fuel efficiency Moderate fuel efficiency Low fuel efficiency
Indicates real-time fuel efficiency using color-coded bars
 
TIRE PRESSURE MONITORING SYSTEM TPMS
Monitors the vehicle’s tire pressures
How It Works
When the tire pressure drops
significantly below recommended
levels, the low tire pressure
indicator comes on
What to Do
 Visually inspect the tires for damage
 Use a tire air pressure gauge to check
which tires have low pressure
 Inflate the tires, if necessary, to the
recommended pressures listed on the
label on the driver’s doorjamb
 Start TPMS calibration
Any time you inflate, change, or rotate one or more of your tires, you need to
recalibrate the system
TPMS Calibration
 Press and hold DISP to go to the Settings screen Use the
selector knob to make and
enter selections
 Select Vehicle Settings
 Select TPMS Calibration
 Select Calibrate The low tire
pressure indicator blinks, and
calibration begins
 Press BACK to exit the menu
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
Door Locks
D e f a u l t L o c k S e t t i n g
The doors are preset to lock
when your vehicle reaches
about  mph
D e f a u l t U n l o c k S e t t i n g
All doors are set to unlock
when the driver’s door is
opened
SETTINGS FOR YOUR VEHICLE
Change different settings for many features in your vehicle See your Owner’s Manual
for detailed information on settings and options
Adjusting Vehicle Settings
Press and hold DISP to go to the
settings menu Use the selector
knob to make and enter selections
Choose from the available options
Audio Settings
Change sound options and
various settings for audio modes
Vehicle Settings*
TPMS calibration, meter setup,
door setup, and more
System Settings
Adjust the display, system
language, and more
Info Settings
Import wallpaper and select
clock type
Phone Settings
Pair a phone, change call and
text/e-mail options, and more
Camera Settings
Change camera modes
*The shift lever must be in Park P to access this menu
AUTO DOOR LOCKS
Program how and when the vehicle doors automatically lock and unlock
Note The driver’s and front passenger’s doors can be opened by pulling the inner
front door handle, regardless of the setting
Changing Settings
Follow the steps below to change your door settings Make sure you are using the
key you want to change the settings for Driver  or Driver  and the vehicle is in
ON mode See your Owner’s Manual for complete setting options
 Press and hold DISP to go to the Settings screen Use the
selector knob to make and
enter selections
 Select Vehicle Settings
 Select Door/Window Setup
 Select Auto Door Lock or
Auto Door Unlock
 Select from the options
 Press BACK to exit the menu
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
How It Works
ONE-TOUCH TURN SIGNAL
Use this quick and convenient method to signal a lane change
• Lightly push the turn signal lever
up or down for a three-blink
sequence
• For a continuous signal, push the
lever up or down until it locks
into place
How It Works
DRIVING POSITION MEMORY SYSTEM DPMS
Store driver’s seat positions into memory for each corresponding keyless remote
transmitter  or  Available on EX-L V
 Turn on the vehicle Make sure the
shift lever is in Park P
 Press SET You will hear a beep
 Adjust the seat to your preferred
position
 Press the memory button
corresponding to the remote
 or  you are using within 
seconds You will hear two beeps
Note Once set, stored positions can be recalled by pressing one of the
memory buttons  or  on the door
How It Works
AUTO HEADLIGHTS WITH WIPER INTEGRATION
For your convenience, your vehicle’s headlights automatically turn on when the
windshield wipers operate
Make sure your headlights are in
the AUTO position
Turn on your windshield wipers
The headlights also turn on
When you turn off the windshield
wipers, the headlights turn off
shortly after
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
MULTI-VIEW REAR CAMERA
How It Works
For added convenience, the area behind your vehicle is displayed to help you navigate
while backing up
Wide default Normal Top down
• When you shift into Reverse R, a real-time image of the area behind your vehicle
is shown in the upper display, along with helpful parking guidelines
• Press the selector knob to toggle between views
• The display turns off when you shift out of Reverse
Changing Settings
Turn the guidelines on or off
 Press and hold DISP to go to the Settings screen Use the
selector knob to make and
enter selections
 Select Camera Settings
 Select Rear Camera
 Select one of the options
Fixed Guidelines Guidelines
appear when you shift into
Reverse Select On or Off
Dynamic Guidelines Guidelines
move as you turn the steering
wheel Select On or Off
 Press BACK to exit the menu
LANEWATCHTM
Helps you check your right blind spot when you make a lane change to the right
Available on EX-L
Visibility Area
How It Works
When the right turn signal is activated, a camera located in the passenger side
door mirror shows the right rear area outside your vehicle on the display
LaneWatch Display
Press the LaneWatch button on the turn signal switch to view a constant real-time
display Press it again to turn the display off The display still appears when the right
turn signal is activated
See your Owner’s Manual for information on adjusting LaneWatch settings
Display
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
LANE DEPARTURE WARNING LDW
Alerts you if your vehicle begins to move out of a detected lane without the turn signal
activated Available on EX-L
LDW may not activate under certain conditions See your Owner’s Manual for more information
How It Works
Turning LDW On or Off
Press LDW to turn the system on or off A green indicator light appears on the
button when the system is on
If you cross a lane line without using your turn signal, the
LDW indicator flashes and a beep sounds
A camera mounted between the windshield and the rearview mirror determines
if your vehicle begins to move away from the center of a detected lane while
driving between _ mph
FORWARD COLLISION WARNING FCW
How It Works
Alerts you to the possibility of a front-end collision Available on EX-L
FCW may not activate under certain conditions See your Owner’s Manual for more information
At  mph or higher, if the camera mounted in the center of the upper windshield
detects a vehicle in front of you and the system determines a collision is likely, the
system provides you with the following visual and audible alerts
Changing Settings
Determine the warning timing, or turn the system off
 Press and hold DISP to go to the Settings screen Use the
selector knob to make and
enter selections
 Select Vehicle Settings
 Select Forward Collision
Warning Distance
 Select Long, Normal, Short, or Off
 Press BACK to exit the menu
If you do not brake in time or take preventive action, the heads-up light near
the windshield flashes twice, the FCW indicator flashes continuously, and a
beep sounds continuously
Short Normal
Long
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
*See your Owner’s Manual for instructions on how to upload a wallpaper image
Display Options
INTELLIGENT MULTI-INFORMATION DISPLAY i-MID
Choose what to display in the upper screen
Press the Display button to
change the main displays
Changing the Display
Current Drive
Shows instant fuel,
average fuel, and
range for the
current drive
History of Trip A
Shows average fuel
and distance for
the current drive
and past three
drives
Clock
or wallpaper
Shows the clock or
an imported image*
Audio
Shows current audio
information
USING THE TOUCHSCREEN
Interactive touchscreen display includes audio and Bluetooth® HandsFreeLink®
functionality
Audio Options
Bluetooth ® HandsFreeLink® Options
Clock/Screen Options
Adjust your vehicle’s clock Adjust various screen settings
Speed Dial
Select stored
speed dial entries
-
Redial Redial the
last number called
Call History Select
number from your call
history
Dial Dial a number*
*This feature is inoperable when the vehicle is moving
Select Phone from the main screen
Select Clock/Screen from the main screen
Source Select
audio sources
Preset Select
preset stations or
channels
Skip/Seek Change
stations, channels,
tracks, etc
More Select menu
options and sound
settings
FM screen shown
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
Using HFL
Pick-Up button Answer an
incoming call or view a partial
Phone menu
Hang-Up/Back button End
a call, decline an incoming call,
or cancel an operation
Talk button Make a call using
a stored voice tag or phone
number
BLUETOOTH ® HANDSFREELINK®
Make and receive phone calls through your vehicle’s audio system Visit
handsfreelinkhondacom to check if this feature is compatible with your phone
To reduce the potential for driver distraction, certain functions may be
inoperable or grayed out while the vehicle is moving Stop or pull over to
perform the function
Use these buttons to navigate through the HFL menus
DISP button
Press and select
Phone to go to
the Phone screen
BACK button
Cancel an
operation or
return to the
previous screen
Selector knob
Rotate to scroll
through selections
and press to make
a selection
Use the selector knob to make and enter selections
Pairing Your Phone
Pair your phone when the vehicle is stopped to begin using hands-free phone and
related audio functions
 Press and hold DISP to go to the
Settings screen
 Select Phone Settings
 Select Bluetooth Device List if no
phone has been paired or Connect
Phone if pairing an additional phone
 Select Add Bluetooth Device
 Make sure your phone is in discovery
mode and select OK
 HFL searches for your phone Select
your phone when it appears on the
list
If your phone does not appear
Select Phone Not Found and search
for HandsFreeLink from your phone
 HFL gives you a six-digit code
Compare it to the code that appears
on your phone Connect to HFL from
your phone
 The system asks if you want to enable
Phone Synchronization Select On to
automatically import contacts and call
history
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
Using Voice Commands
Dialing a Number
Enter a -digit phone number to call
Using the Touchscreen*
*Manual operation is limited while the vehicle is moving Voice commands are always available
 Select Phone
 Select Dial
 Enter the phone number Select the
green Dial icon to call
 Say “Dial by number”
 Say the phone number For example, “---------”
 Say “Dial” The system begins to dial
Using Speed Dial or Call History
Store up to  speed dial entries, or view the last  calls for quick calling The
first six entries can be selected from the touchscreen
 Using the touchscreen, select Phone
 Select a speed dial entry to call, or select Call
History and a number
For the full list of entries, press DISP, select
Phone, and select Speed Dial or Call History
Press and release the Talk button before you say a command
Use the selector knob to make and enter selections
Using the Phonebook
When your phone is paired, its entire phonebook is automatically imported to
the system Phone synchronization must be on for this feature to work
Using Voice Commands
Using the Menu*
*Manual operation is limited while the vehicle is moving Voice commands are always available
 Press DISP
 Select Phone
 Select Phonebook
 Scroll through the list to find the name
and number you want, and select it to
call
 Say “Call by name”
 Say the phonebook name and phone
type For example, “John Smith mobile”
Receiving a Call
A notification is heard and the incoming call information appears on the display
You can also select the icons
on the touchscreen
Press and release the Talk button before you say a command
Press the
Pick-Up button
to answer the call
Press the
Hang-Up button
to end or decline
the call
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
SMS TEXT MESSAGING AND E-MAIL
Use the selector knob to make and enter selections
Receiving Messages
Use the selector knob to make and enter selections
Replying to Messages
Receive and send text messages and e-mails from your paired and linked phone using
Bluetooth® HandsFreeLink® Visit handsfreelinkhondacom to see if this feature is
compatible with your phone Standard message rates apply This feature is limited
while the vehicle is moving
 A notification appears on the display
Select Read to open the message
 The message is displayed, and the system
reads it aloud
 With the message open, press MENU to
enter the Message menu
 Select Reply
 Select one of the six available reply
messages
 Select Send to send the message
Note Notifications and operation for SMS Text and E-mail are separate Choose your
desired account in Phone Settings see page 
Use the selector knob to make and enter selections
Calling the Sender
 With the message open, press MENU to
enter the Message menu
 Select Call
BASIC AUDIO OPERATION
Operate basic controls of your audio system using various and convenient methods
Steering Wheel Controls
Volume increase
button
Volume decrease
button
SOURCE button
Change audio source
t button Go to
previous stations
or tracks
u button Go to next
stations or tracks
Touchscreen Controls
Select various controls depending on the audio source being played
FM screen shown
Source Select
audio sources
Preset Select
preset stations
Skip/Seek Change
stations, tracks, etc
More Select menu
options and sound
settings
Connect the iPhone or iPod cable
or a USB flash drive to the USB
port in the front console
Connect your device only when
your vehicle is stopped
USB Connection
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
Playing Audio Files
iPod ® OR USB FLASH DRIVE
Play audio files from your compatible iPod or USB flash drive through your vehicle’s
audio system
 Connect the iPod cable or USB flash drive to the USB port in the front console
see page 
 Select Source and select the iPod or USB icon
 Use the touchscreen or steering wheel controls to change tracks
iPod is a trademark of Apple, Inc
Searching for Music
 Press MENU Use the selector knob to
make and enter selections
 Select Music Search
 Select a category or folder
 Select a track to begin playing
BLUETOOTH ® AUDIO
Play stored or streaming audio from your compatible phone through your vehicle’s audio
system Visit handsfreelinkhondacom to check if this feature is compatible with your phone
Playing Bluetooth Audio
 Make sure your phone is on and paired to Bluetooth® HandsFreeLink® see
page 
 Select Source and select the Bluetooth icon
 From your phone, open the desired audio player or app and begin playing
Sound is redirected to the audio system Make sure the volume on your phone
is properly adjusted
 Use the touchscreen or steering wheel controls to change tracks
Notes
• You may need to enable additional Bluetooth settings on your phone for
playback
• The play/pause function and remote audio controls are not supported on all
phones
• Operate your phone only when your vehicle is stopped
Select the
Bluetooth icon
from Source
Select the iPod
or USB icon
from Source
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
Play and operate Pandora from your compatible phone through your vehicle’s audio
system Visit handsfreelinkhondacom to check if this feature is compatible with your
phone Standard data rates apply
PANDORA ®
Access music and information programming, location-based services, and social media
through your vehicle’s audio system Download the HondaLink app to your phone from
ownershondacom/apps before using this feature Visit handsfreelinkhondacom to check if
this feature is compatible with your phone Standard data rates apply
HondaLink featuring AhaTM
Playing Pandora
 For Bluetooth connection Make sure your phone is paired to Bluetooth®
HandsFreeLink® see page  and the screen is on and unlocked
For USB connection Connect the iPhone cable to the USB port in the front
console see page 
 Select Source and select the Pandora icon Streaming begins
 Use the touchscreen to like/dislike songs, and the touchscreen or steering
wheel controls to change tracks
Select the aha icon
from Source
Playing Aha
 For Bluetooth connection Make sure your phone is paired to Bluetooth®
HandsFreeLink® see page  and the screen is on and unlocked
For USB connection Connect the iPhone cable to the USB port in the front
console see page 
 Select Source and select the aha icon Streaming begins
 Use the touchscreen to like/dislike songs, and the touchscreen or steering
wheel controls to change tracks
Select Stations to select
from  favorite stations
Press MENU to view the
complete station list
iPhone is a trademark of Apple, Inc
iPhone is a trademark of Apple, Inc
Notes
• iPhone can connect via Bluetooth or USB; Android and BlackBerry can
connect via Bluetooth only
• If you cannot operate Pandora through the audio system, it may be streaming
through Bluetooth® Audio Make sure the Pandora source on your audio system
is selected
• A pop-up may appear on your phone requesting you to allow access for the
app to be launched
• Operate your phone only when your vehicle is stopped
Notes
• iPhone can connect via Bluetooth or USB; Android can connect via Bluetooth
only
• If you cannot operate Aha through the audio system, it may be streaming
through Bluetooth® Audio Make sure the Aha source on your audio system is
selected
• A pop-up may appear on your phone requesting you to allow access for the
app to be launched
• Operate your phone only when your vehicle is stopped
Select the Pandora
icon from Source
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
HOMELINK ®
Program your vehicle to operate up to three remote-controlled devices around your
home, such as garage doors, lighting, or home security systems Available on EX-L V
Press and hold the button on the
remote and the HomeLink button at
the same time Then, while
continuing to hold the HomeLink
button, press and release the button
on the remote every  seconds
Does the LED blink at a faster rate within 
seconds?
Press and hold
the HomeLink
button again
Training
complete
NO YES
HomeLink indicator
flashes for  seconds,
then remains on
HomeLink LED
remains on NO YES
NO YES
Position the remote transmitter you
wish to link – inches from the
HomeLink button you want to program

Press and hold the desired HomeLink
button and the button on the remote
transmitter
Does the HomeLink indicator LED blink at a
faster rate after about  seconds?

a
The remote has a rolling code
Press the “learn” button on the
remote-controlled device eg,
garage door opener
Press the programmed HomeLink
button again; the remote-controlled
device should operate
Within  seconds, press and hold
the programmed HomeLink button
for  seconds
a
Press and hold the programmed
HomeLink button for about a second
Does the device garage door opener work?

b


Training a Button
If you have any problems programming HomeLink, see the owner’s manual included
with the device you are trying to program, call HomeLink at  -, or
visit wwwhomelinkcom
HONDA OWNERS
Visit ownershondacom and register to explore features and technologies specific to
your vehicle, obtain and update maintenance and service records, manage your
financial services account, and access other useful information For added convenience,
Honda Owners can also be accessed on a mobile device
Your vehicle is equipped with airbags Airbags do not replace seat belts; they add to
the protection offered by seat belts Airbags can help protect you in some types of
collisions, but they do not provide protection in all collisions
Always make sure you and your passengers wear seat belts, and that young children
are properly secured in a child seat or booster in the rear seat Never place an
infant seat in the front passenger’s seat as the force of a deploying airbag can
seriously injure an infant
SAFETY REMINDER
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page  
FUEL RECOMMENDATION
Use of unleaded gasoline of  octane or higher is recommended
• Honda recommends TOP TIER Detergent Gasoline where available
• Do NOT use gasoline containing more than % ethanol
• Do NOT use gasoline containing methanol
• Do NOT use gasoline containing MMT
See your Owner’s Manual for more information
Some gasoline in North America contains MMT, a manganese-based fuel additive
Prolonged and consistent use of gasoline containing MMT can deteriorate your
vehicle’s performance, fuel economy, and the emission control system Always use
MMT-free gasoline if available Failures caused by use of gasoline containing MMT may
not be covered under your new vehicle warranty
TOP TIER Detergent Gasoline recommended never contains MMT and has
detergent additives to keep your engine clean For further information on fuel and
lubricants for your car and information on gasoline that does not contain MMT,
contact your dealer or visit ownershondacom
 Accord D TRG_EX-EXL_ATG_NEW STYLE //  AM Page 

 first went to Greenland in 1993 to get above tree line. I’d been hit by lightning and was back on my feet after a long two-year recovery. Feeling claustrophobic, I needed to see horizon lines, and off I went with no real idea of where I was going. A chance meeting with a couple from west Greenland drew me north for a summer and part of the next dark winter. When I returned the following spring, the ice had failed to come in. I had planned to travel up the west coast by dogsled on the route that Knud Rasmussen took during his 1916–18 expedition. I didn’t know then that such a trip was no longer possible, that the ice on which Arctic people and animals had relied for thousands of years would soon be nearly gone.

In the following years I went much farther up the coast, to the two oldest northernmost villages in the world: Qaanaaq and Siorapaluk. From there I traveled with an extended family of Inuit subsistence hunters who represent an ice-evolved culture that stretches across the Polar North. Here, snowmobiles are banned for hunting purposes; against all odds, traditional practices are still carried on: hunting seals and walrus from dogsleds in winter, spring, and fall; catching narwhals from kayaks in summer; making and wearing polar-bear pants, fox anoraks, sealskin mittens and boots. In Qaanaaq’s large communal workshop, twenty-first-century tools are used to make Ice Age equipment: harpoons, dogsleds, kayaks. The ways in which these Greenlanders get their food are not much different than they were a thousand years ago, but in recent years Arctic scientists have labeled Greenland’s seasonal sea ice “a rotten ice regime.” Instead of nine months of good ice, there are only two or three. Where the ice in spring was once routinely six to ten feet thick, in 2004 the thickness was only seven inches even when the temperature was –30 degrees Fahrenheit. “It is breaking up from beneath,” one hunter explained, “because of the wind and stormy waters. We never had that before. It was always clear skies, cold weather, calm seas. We see the ice not wanting to come back. If the ice goes it will be a disaster. Without ice we are nothing.”

MONROE TECHNIQUES FOR ASTRAL PROJECTION 

Note: After having studied many methods of Astral Projection, I have
found that this is the easies to do.  Monroe teaches these techniques
in a week, but they can be easily done in a day, with proper devotion.
I feel that this technique is superior to others because it doe not
require intense visualization, which many people cannot do.  enjoy!

(Taken from Leaving The Body: A Complete Guide to Astral Projection,
D. Scott Rogo, prentice Hall Press)

One of the chief barriers people learning to project face is fear.
Many are afraid that they may die, or be harmed in some way as a
result of their projection.  Nothing could be farther from the truth.
The Cantebury Institute, reknowned for its occult studies, executed an
experiment in projection involving over 2,000 people.  None of them
were hurt in any way by this, and now, three years later, none have
complained of any newly arising problems.

Once you are aware that you cannot be harmed by projecting, you should
begin monroe's techniques, step by step.

Step one:
Relax the body. According to Monroe, "the ability to relax is the
first prerequisite, perhaps even the first step itself" to having an
OBE. (out of body experience) This includes bothe physical and mental
relaxation. Monroe does not suggest a method of attaining this
relaxation, although Progressive Muscle relaxation, coupled with deep
breathing exercises (inhale 1, exhale 2, inhale 3....  until 50 or
100) are known to work well.

Step two: 
Enter the state bordering sleep.  This is known as the hypnagogic
state.  Once again, Monroe doesn't recommend any method of doing this.
One way is to hold your forearm up, while keeping your upper arm on
the bed, or ground. As you start to fall asleep, your arm will fall,
and you will awaken again.  With practice, you can learn to control
the Hypnagogic state without using your arm.  Another method is to
concentrate on an object.  When other images start to enter your
thoughts, you have entered the Hypnagogic state.  Passively watch
these images.  This will also help you maintain this state of
near-sleep.  Monroe calls this Condition A.

Step three: 
Deepen this state. Begin to clear your mind.  observe your field of
vision through your closed eyes.  Do nothing more for a while.  Simply
look through your closed eyelids at the blackness in front of you.
After a while, you may notice light patterns.  These are simply neural
discharges.  They have no specific effect.  Ignore them.  When they
cease, one has entered what Monroe calls Condition B.  From here, one
must enter an even deeper state of relaxation which Monroe calls
Condition C-- a state of such relaxation that you lose all awareness
of the body and sensory stimulation.  You are almost in a void in
which your only source of stimulation will be your own thoughts.  The
ideal state for leaving your body is Condition D.  This is Condition C
when it is voluntarily induced from a rested and refreshed condition
and is not the effect of normal fatigue.  To achieve Condition D,
Monroe suggests that you practice entering it in the morning or after
a short nap.

Step Four: 
Enter a state of Vibration. This is the most important part of the
technique, and also the most vague.  Many projectors have noted these
vibrations at the onset of projection.  They can be experienced as a
mild tingling, or as is electricity is being shot through the body.
Their cause is a mystery.  It may actually be the astral body trying
to leave the physical one.  For entering into the vibrational state,
he offers the following directions:

     1. Remove all jewelry or other items that might be touching your
     skin.

     2. Darken the room so that no light can be seen through your
     eyelids, but do not shut out all light.

     3.  Lie down with your body along a north-south axis, with your
     head pointed toward magnetic north.

     4. Loosen all clothing, but keep covered so that you are slightly
     warmer than might normally be comfortable.

     5. Be sure you are in a location where, and at a time when, there
     will be absolutely no noise to disturb you.

     6. Enter a state of relaxation

     7. Give yourself the mental suggestion that you will remember all
     that occurs during the upcoming session that will be beneficial
     to your well-being. Repeat this five times.

     8. Proceed to breath through your helf-open mouth. 

     9. As you breath, concentrate on the void in front of you. 

     10. Select a point a foot away from your forehead, then change
     your point of mental reference to six feet.

     11. Turn the point 90 degrees upward by drawing an imaginary line
     parallel to your body axis up and above your head.  Focus there
     and reach out for the vibrations at that point and bring them
     back into your body.

Even if you don't know what these vibrations are, you will know when
you have achieved contact with them.

Step five: 
Learn to control the vibrational state.  Practice controlling them by
mentally pushing them into your head, down to your toes, making them
surge throughout your entire body, and producing vibrational waves
from head to foot.  To produce this wave effect, concentrate of the
vibrations and mentally push a wave out of your head and guide it down
your body.  Practice this until you can induce these waves on command.
Once you have control of the vibrational state, you are ready to leave
the body.

Step six:
Begin with a partial seperation.  The key here is thought control.
Keep your mind firmly focused on the idea of leaving the body. Do not
let it wander. Stray thought might cause you to lose control of the
state.  Now, having entered the vibrational state, begin exploring the
OBE by releasing a hand or a foot of the "second body".  Monroe
suggests that you extend a limb until it comes in contact with a
familiar object, such as a wall near your bed.  Then push it through
the object. Return the limb by placing it back into coincidence with
the physical one, decrease the vibrational rate, and then terminate
the experiment.  Lie quietly until you have fully returned to normal.
This exercise will prepare you for full seperation.

Step seven: 
Disassociate yourself from the body. Monroe suggests two methods for
this.  One method is to lift out of the body.  To do this, think about
getting lighter and lighter after entering this vibrational state.
Think about how nice it would be to float upward.  Keep this thought
in mind at all costs and let no extraneous thoughts interrupt it. An
OBE will occur naturally at this point.  Another method is the
"Rotation method" or "roll-out" technique.  When you have achieved the
vibrational state, try to roll over as if you were turning over in
bed.  /do not attempt to roll over physically.  Try to twist your body
from the top and virtually roll over into your second body right out
of your physical self.  At this point, you will be out of the body but
next to it.  Think of floating upward, and you should find yourself
floating above the body.  Monroe suggets you begin with the lift-out
method, but argues that both are equally efficacious.

If, after all this, you still can't project, I recommend purchasing
Leaving The Body, by R.  Scott Rogo.  It only costs $7.95 and contains
another eight or so techniques.  Not all techniques work for everyone,
but chances are you'll find one that works for you in this book.  Good
luck!

Thich Van.

The Longest Day
===================

Few of God's miracles cause protests in the "scientific" community like the
account of Joshua's long day - when God made the sun and moon to stand still.
But science and modern technology have done more to verify this phenominal
biblical fact than they have to refute it.

Common sense would say it is impossible for such a major disruption to occur
and not totally destroy the precise, perfect balance in the solar system.  But
given a God, who created the heavens and the earth, who established the
rotation of the planets and stars to the fraction of a second, making the earth
stop rotating for 24 hours is not such a difficult task.  Yet, computer
scientists in the space program and mathematicians - one a former professor at
Yale University - have discovered that a whole day has been unaccountably added
in time.

The positions of the moon, sun, and planets have to be calculated precisely for
all space shots to avoid problems in establishing the satellite's orbit.  The
orbit has to be calculated for the life of the satellite to avoid its running
into something else in space.

Using computers, scientists can tell the exact location of the planets and
their moons for years into the future.  By the same means, they have been able
to backtrack and determine these specific locations in the past.  It was during
one such search that the extra day appeared.

From various accounts of the incident, it appears that something "did not
compute." The extra day was just there.  There was no computer malfunction;
there was no explanation for the interruption of normal time patterns.

When this apparent error appeared and no explanation was forthcoming, one of
the scientists related that he had studied in Sunday School about time standing
still.  A preposterous idea to scientists, but faced with no other explanation,
they asked him to show them the story.

In the story in the tenth chapter of the book of Joshua, Joshua had asked God
to make the sun and moon stand still to enable Joshua to defeat his enemies.
Joshua 10:13 says, "And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed, until the
people had avenged themselves upon their enemies...  So the sun stood still in
the midst of heaven, and hasted not to go down about a whole day."

There was the extra day that science couldn't account for.  But scientists are
more exact than that.  The term, "about a whole day" was not close enough for
them.

They rechecked their computers, going back to the time when the story was
written.  Their calculations showed that the time the sun stood still was 23
hours and 20 minutes.  It was not a whole day.  This forty minutes was
significant to the computer experts with their penchant for precision.  A
missing forty minutes would throw things off for years into the future.

The former Sunday School pupil piped up again, saying he knew of another Bible
story where the sun traveled backward.  This possibility was even more bizarre
than the sun standing still, said his skeptical, fellow scientists.  But they
agreed to hear him out, even if only to prove him wrong.

They got out the Book again and turned to II Kings 20 and read about Hezekiah
on his death bed.  The prophet Isaiah told Hezekiah he would not die, but
Hezekiah required a sign from God.  So, Isaiah proposed to have God move the
sun forward 10 degrees.

In verse 10, Hezekiah says, "It is a light thing for the shadow to go down ten
degrees:  nay, but let the shadow return backward ten degrees."

Isaiah called upon God and the shadow on the sun dial moved back 10 degrees.
Ten degrees is exactly 40 minutes.  These 40 minutes in II Kings, combined with
the 23 hours and 20 minutes in Joshua, account forn the extra day - the 24 God
given hours that space travelers will have to include in their calculations.

From - Christian Science Monitor & The Evangelist



register tour sign in Goodreads: Book reviews, recommendations, and discussion

search
Home My Books Friends Recommendations Explore
Goodreads helps you follow your favorite authors. Be the first to learn about new releases!
Start by following E.E. Cummings.
- Replace with actual Author Follow button supporting non-signed in users
Follow Author
E.E. CummingsE.E. Cummings > Quotes


more photos (1) 

E.E. Cummings quotes (showing 1-30 of 310)
“It takes courage to grow up and become who you really are.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: attributed-no-source, courage 14712 likes like
“I carry your heart with me (I carry it in my heart)I am never without it (anywhere
I go you go,my dear; and whatever is done by only me is your doing,my darling)
I fear no fate (for you are my fate,my sweet)I want no world (for beautiful you are my world,my true)
and it's you are whatever a moon has always meant and whatever a sun will always sing is you

here is the deepest secret nobody knows
(here is the root of the root and the bud of the bud and the sky of the sky of a tree called life; which grows
higher than the soul can hope or mind can hide)
and this is the wonder that's keeping the stars apart

I carry your heart (I carry it in my heart)” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: love, poetry 8302 likes like
“To be nobody but 
yourself in a world 
which is doing its best day and night to make you like 
everybody else means to fight the hardest battle 
which any human being can fight and never stop fighting.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: poetry 4337 likes like
“Unbeing dead isn't being alive.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: death, life, poetry 3885 likes like
“We do not believe in ourselves until someone reveals that deep inside us something is valuable, worth listening to, worthy of our trust, sacred to our touch. Once we believe in ourselves we can risk curiosity, wonder, spontaneous delight or any experience that reveals the human spirit.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: inspirational-human-spirit 2100 likes like
“Whenever you think or you believe or you know, you're a lot of other people: but the moment you feel, you're nobody-but-yourself.” 
― E.E. Cummings
2070 likes like
“I will take the sun in my mouth
and leap into the ripe air 
Alive 
with closed eyes
to dash against darkness” 
― E.E. Cummings, Poems, 1923-1954
2034 likes like
“Trust your heart if the seas catch fire, live by love though the stars walk backward.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: decisions, love, stars, taking-chances 1976 likes like
“and it's you are whatever a moon has always meant
and whatever a sun will always sing is you” 
― E.E. Cummings
1361 likes like
“i like my body when it is with your
body. It is so quite new a thing.
Muscles better and nerves more.
i like your body. i like what it does,
i like its hows. i like to feel the spine
of your body and its bones, and the trembling
-firm-smooth ness and which i will
again and again and again
kiss, i like kissing this and that of you,
i like, slowly stroking the, shocking fuzz
of your electric fur, and what-is-it comes
over parting flesh ... And eyes big love-crumbs,

and possibly i like the thrill

of under me you so quite new.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: love, poetry 1303 likes like
“For whatever we lose (like a you or a me),
It's always our self we find in the sea.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: water 1300 likes like
“Lovers alone wear sunlight.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: adoration, love, poetry 1252 likes like
“Unless you love someone, nothing else makes sense.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: love 1192 likes like
“I'd rather learn from one bird how to sing 
than teach ten thousand stars how not to dance” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: constructive-living, inspirational 1156 likes like
“listen: there’s a hell
of a good universe next door; let’s go” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: ee-cummings, poetry 1074 likes like
“Yours is the light by which my spirit's born: - you are my sun, my moon, and all my stars.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: love, moon, stars, sun 970 likes like
“I thank you God for this most amazing day, for the leaping greenly spirits of trees, and for the blue dream of sky and for everything which is natural, which is infinite, which is yes.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: inspirational 903 likes like
“since feeling is first
who pays any attention
to the syntax of things
will never wholly kiss you;

wholly to be a fool
while Spring is in the world

my blood approves,
and kisses are a far better fate
than wisdom
lady i swear by all flowers. Don't cry
--the best gesture of my brain is less than
your eyelids' flutter which says

we are for eachother: then
laugh, leaning back in my arms
for life's not a paragraph

And death i think is no parenthesis” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: feeling, kiss, love 818 likes like
“The snow doesn't give a soft white damn whom it touches.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: snow 818 likes like
“The three saddest things are the ill wanting to be well, the poor wanting to be rich, and the constant traveler saying 'anywhere but here'.” 
― E.E. Cummings
775 likes like
“Love is the voice under all silences, the hope which has no opposite in fear; the strength so strong mere force is feebleness: the truth more first than sun, more last than star...” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: love 715 likes like
“somewhere i have never travelled, gladly beyond
any experience, your eyes have their silence:
in your most frail gesture are things which enclose me,
or which i cannot touch because they are too near

your slightest look easily will unclose me
though i have closed myself as fingers,
you open always petal by petal myself as Spring opens
(touching skilfully, mysteriously) her first rose

or if your wish be to close me, i and
my life will shut very beautifully, suddenly,
as when the heart of this flower imagines
the snow carefully everywhere descending;

nothing which we are to perceive in this world equals
the power of your intense fragility: whose texture
compels me with the colour of its countries,
rendering death and forever with each breathing

(i do not know what it is about you that closes
and opens; only something in me understands
the voice of your eyes is deeper than all roses)
nobody, not even the rain, has such small hands” 
― E.E. Cummings, Selected Poems
tags: todos-se-van 698 likes like
“may came home with a smooth round stone
as small as a world and as large as alone.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: loneliness, poetry, travel 607 likes like
“The world is mud-luscious and puddle-wonderful.” 
― E.E. Cummings
596 likes like
“I like my body when it is with your body. It is so quite new a thing. Muscles better and nerves more.” 
― E.E. Cummings
591 likes like
“life's not a paragraph
And death i think is no parenthesis” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: poetry 590 likes like
“Once we believe in ourselves, we can risk curiosity, wonder, spontaneous delight, or any experience that reveals the human spirit” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: self-acceptance, self-confidence 576 likes like
“anyone lived in a pretty how town
(with up so floating many bells down)
spring summer autumn winter
he sang his didn't he danced his did

Women and men(both little and small)
cared for anyone not at all
they sowed their isn't they reaped their same
sun moon stars rain

children guessed(but only a few
and down they forgot as up they grew
autumn winter spring summer)
that noone loved him more by more

when by now and tree by leaf
she laughed his joy she cried his grief
bird by snow and stir by still
anyone's any was all to her

someones married their everyones
laughed their cryings and did their dance
(sleep wake hope and then)they
said their nevers they slept their dream

stars rain sun moon
(and only the snow can begin to explain
how children are apt to forget to remember
with up so floating many bells down)

one day anyone died i guess
(and noone stooped to kiss his face)
busy folk buried them side by side
little by little and was by was

all by all and deep by deep
and more by more they dream their sleep
noone and anyone earth by april
wish by spirit and if by yes.

Women and men (both dong and ding)
summer autumn winter spring
reaped their sowing and went their came
sun moon stars rain” 
― E.E. Cummings, Selected Poems
tags: love 575 likes like
“i carry your heart with me(i carry it in my heart)” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: love, poetry 532 likes like
“One's not half of two; two are halves of one.” 
― E.E. Cummings
tags: completion, couples 469 likes like
« previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 next »

All Quotes | Add A Quote
Find quotes    
Play The 'Guess That Quote' Game 

Books by E.E. Cummings
100 Selected Poems 100 Selected Poems
17,559 ratings
Open Preview
Complete Poems, 1904-1962 Complete Poems, 1904-1962
16,195 ratings
Selected Poems Selected Poems
9,116 ratings
Open Preview
95 Poems 95 Poems
1,350 ratings
More…


© 2015 Goodreads Inc about us advertise author program jobs api our blog terms privacy help switch to: mobile version
DoubleClick
Facebook Connect
Google Analytics
KissInsights
Quantcast
ScoreCard Research Beacon
Twitter Button
